SPECIAL ISSUE                                                           4253
Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 185                              22nd July, 2026

                           (Legislative Supplement No. 103)

LEGAL NOTICE NO. 134
       THE VIRTUAL ASSET SERVICE PROVIDERS ACT
                            (No.20 of 2025)
 THE VIRTUAL ASSET SERVICE PROVIDERS REGULATIONS,
                       2026
                ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS


Regulation
                      PART I –PRELIMINARY
  1—Citation.
  2—Interpretation.
  3—Objects and purpose of these Regulations.
  4—Application of these Regulations.
  5—Fees payable.
         PART II—LICENSING AND AUTHORIZATION
                     REQUIREMENTS
  6—Application for a licence.
  7—Issuance of licence.
  8—Commencement of virtual asset business.
  9—Alteration of facts disclosed in application.
  10—Grounds for rejection of an application.
  11—Renewal of licence.
  12—False and misleading statements.
  13—Assignment and transfer of licence.
  14—Authorisation for conversion of virtual assets.
  15—Renewal of authorisation.
  16—Revocation of authorisation
   PART III —PROVISIONS ON ONGOING REQUIREMENTS
  17—Ongoing obligations.
  18—Human and technology resources.
  19—Virtual asset business to establish proper markets.
  4254                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

  20—Business and default rules.
  21—Business continuity and incident response plans.
  22—Transaction information.
  23—Disclosure of information by employees.
  24—Disclosure of information to consumers.
  25—Consumer information.
  26—Record keeping and submission of reports.
  27—Provision of information required by the relevant regulatory
     authority.
  28—Register of interests.
  29—Ownership changes.
  30—Conflict of interest.
  31—Information at point of service.
  32—Performance of customer due diligence prior to onboarding.
  33—Performance of due diligence before admission for trading.
  34—Transaction confirmation.
  35—Fair allocation.
  36—Timely allocation.
  37—Off-market transactions.
  38—Inspections and investigation.
  39—Compliance officer.
  40—Risk management.
  PART IV—CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS
  41—Governance arrangements.
  42—Board of directors.
  43—Role of the board of directors.
  44—Chief executive officer
  45—Finance officers and internal auditors.
PART V — INTERVENTION AND STATUTORY MANAGEMENT
  46—Intervention in management.
  47—Statutory management upon suspension or revocation.
  48—Functions and powers of a statutory manager under regulation.
  PART VI—REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFER OF INITIAL COIN
     OFFERINGS AND LISTINGS FOR VIRTUAL ASSET
                           EXCHANGES
  49—Application for approval to issue initial coin offering.
  50—Determination of the application.
  51—Approval of promoter.
  52—Approval of trading platforms.
                        Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026              4255

53—Validity of approval for offer of initial coin offering.
54—Publication of white paper for an initial coin offering.
55—Modification of published white paper for an initial coin
   offering.
56—Commencement and duration of advertising.
57—Extension of issuance.
58—Change of promoter.
59—Register.
60—Listing requirements for virtual asset exchanges and token
   issuance platform.
PART VII— PROVISIONS RELATING TO TOKENIZATION OF
               REAL-WORLD ASSETS
61—Application for virtual asset tokenization licence.
62—Requirements relating to issuance of tokenised real-world
   assets.
63—Contents of white paper for offering of tokenized real-world
   asset.
64—Modification of white paper for an offering of tokenized real-
   world asset.
65—Listing of tokenized assets.
PART VIII— PROVISIONS RELATING TO VIRTUAL ASSET
  WALLET PROVIDERS AND ISSUERS OF STABLECOIN
66—Responsibilities of a virtual asset wallet provider.
67—Application for a stablecoins issuance licence.
68—Contents of a stablecoin white paper.
69—Publication of the virtual asset white paper for stablecoins.
70—Requirements for the offer to the public or admission to trading
   of stablecoin.
71— Issuance and redeemability of stablecoins
72—Prohibition of granting interest.
73—Modification of published virtual asset white papers
74—Liability of issuers of stablecoins for the information given in a
   stablecoin white paper.
75—Stablecoin reserve assets.
76—Custody of reserve assets.
77—Investment of funds received in exchange for stablecoin
78—Ongoing information to holders of stablecoins.
 4256                   Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

 79—Identification, prevention, management and disclosure of
    conflicts of interest.
 80—Redemption of stablecoins
 81—Marketing and communication of stablecoin issuance.
 82—Audits, review and reports.
 83—Delisting or halting of stablecoin issuance.
 84—Stablecoin issuers reporting requirements.
  PART IX— CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS
 85—Minimum financial and capital requirements.
 86—Misrepresentation of capital position
 87—Role of virtual asset manager in relation to capital position and
    use of funds.
 88—Insurance coverage.
 89—Accounting records.
 90—Appointment of an external auditor.
 91—Auditor’s report.
 92—Reports by the licensee.
 93—Reports by virtual asset exchange and token issuance platform
    provider.
 94—Reports by virtual asset managers.
 95—Financial year.
PART X — CYBERSECURITY MEASURES AND SYSTEMS AND
                    CONTROL
 96—Cybersecurity strategy.
 97—Systems and control.
 98—Cybersecurity audit.
 99—Reporting of cybersecurity risk.
 100—Cybersecurity audit report.
    PART XI — SAFEKEEPING AND MANAGEMENT OF
                CONSUMER’S ASSETS
 101—Safeguarding of consumer’s assets strategy.
 102—Consumer protection.
 103—Consumer service agreement.
 104—Management and safe-keeping of consumer’s funds and
     assets.
 105—Systems and controls to safe- keep consumer assets.
                         Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026      4257

  106—Protection from third party claims.
  107—Records and accounts.
 PART XII — MARKET CONDUCT AND RELATED OFFENCES
  108—Standards of conduct.
  109—Consumers’ understanding of risk.
  110—Addressing complaints by consumers.
  111—Consumer care system.
  112—Deterrence of market abuse.
  113—Outsourcing agreements.
  Market conduct offences
  114—Disclosure of insider information.
  115—Market manipulation.
  116—False trading and market rigging.
  117—Fraudulently inducing trading in virtual assets.
  118—Use of manipulative devices.
  119—False or misleading statements inducing virtual assets
      transactions.
  120—Front-running.
  121—Churning.
  122—Cold Calling.
  PART XIII — ADVERTISEMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
            VIRTUAL ASSETS AND PRODUCTS
  123—Prohibition.
  124—General requirements for advertisement.
  125—Content of advertisement.
  126—Performance information.
  127—Fees, costs and commissions.
  128—Risks and warning disclosures.
  129—Duty of a person making advertisement.
  130—Duties of third parties making advertisements.
  131—Internet advertisement.
  132—Prohibited internet advertising and marketing practices.
  133—Record keeping.
PART XIV — FREEZING AND SEIZURE ORDERS
  134—Freezing and seizure of virtual assets.
4258                   Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

135—General obligations of licensee relating to freezing and seizure
    orders.
136—Freezing orders: Obligations of licensee.
137—Seizure orders: obligations to licensee.
138—Preservation of value.
139—Custody and management of seized virtual assets.
140—Protection of uninvolved consumers.
141—Offence of failure to comply.
 PART XV— ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS AND GENERAL
                PROVISIONS
142—Administrative sanctions.
143—Criminal sanctions.
144—Recovery of penalties.
145—Establishment of the Forum.
146—Mandate of the Forum.
147—Conduct of business of the Forum.
148—Notice to penalise.
149—Voluntary liquidation.
150—Involuntary liquidation.
151—Appeals.
       FIRST SCHEDULE            Fees payable
       SECOND SCHEDULE Forms
       THIRD SCHEDULE            Contents of a business plan
       FOURTH SCHEDULE Fit and proper assesement
       FIFTH SCHEDULE            Capital and liquidity requirements
       SIXTH SCHEDULE            Membership of the Coordination Forum
                               Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4259

             THE VIRTUAL ASSET SERVICE PROVIDERS ACT
                               (No. 20 of 2025)
      IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred by section 49 of the
Virtual Asset Service Providers Act, the Cabinet Secretary for the
National Treasury, on the advice of the relevant regulatory authorities
makes the following Regulations —
 THE VIRTUAL ASSET SERVICE PROVIDERS REGULATIONS,
                       2026
                       PART 1—PRELIMINARY
      1. These Regulations may be cited as the Virtual Asset Service         Citation.
Providers Regulations, 2026.
      2.   In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires—      Interpretation.

      “Act” means the Virtual Asset Service Providers Act;                   No. 20 of 2025.

       “advertisement” means a representation for the purposes of
directly or indirectly promoting virtual assets and virtual asset services
through any medium and in any form;
      “AML/CFT/CPF” has the meaning assigned to it under section 2
of the Act;
      “authorised officer” means—
    (a)    a police officer;
    (b)    officer of an investigating authority;
    (c)    any other officer, employee or agent of a competent authority
           who is appointed to perform any specific function, duty, or
           exercise any power conferred upon an authorised officer
           under these Regulations or any written law;
       “consumer” means a person who uses, has used, or intends to use
directly or indirectly any of the products or services provided by a
virtual asset service provider;
     “consumer assets” means any virtual assets owned by a
consumer, including stablecoin;
      “core capital” means issued and fully paid-up ordinary share
capital and disclosed reserves;
      “cybersecurity” means an approach or series of steps to prevent
or manage the risk of damage to, unauthorized use of, exploitation of
and, as needed, to restore electronic information and communications
systems, and the information they contain, in order to strengthen the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of these systems;
      “cybersecurity event” means any act or attempt, successful or
unsuccessful, to gain unauthorized access to disrupt, or misuse the
electronic systems or information stored on such systems;
      “cybersecurity incident” means an occurrence that—
   4260                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

       (a) jeopardizes without lawful authority, the integrity,
           confidentiality, or availability of information or an
           information system; or
       (b) constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law,
           security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use of
           policies;
      “cybersecurity risk” means the risk of financial loss, operational
disruption or damage from the failure of the digital technologies
employed for informational or operational functions introduced to an
information system via electronic means from the unauthorized access,
use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the
information system;
      “fiat currency” has the meaning assigned to it under section 2 of
the Act;
      “fiat-referenced stablecoin” means a type of virtual asset that is
designed to maintain a stable value by being pegged to a fiat currency;
      “forks” means changes to the software on which a distributed
ledger technology protocol operates;
      “freezing order” means an order issued by a competent court or
other lawful authority directing a virtual asset service provider to
prohibit any dealing, transfer, conversion, withdrawal or disposal of a
specified virtual asset;
      “liquid capital” means the amount which the liquid assets of a
licensee exceed its liabilities;
      “liquid assets” means a resource or asset that can be readily
converted into cash without experiencing a significant or no loss in
value;
      “paid-up capital” means issued and fully paid-up ordinary shares
paid by shareholders of the company;
       “promoter” has the meaning assigned to it under section 2 of the
Act;
      “real-world asset” means a tangible or intangible asset
representing existing forms of wealth which can be tokenized and
brought into the blockchain ecosystem;
      “relevant regulatory authority” has the meaning assigned to it
under section 2 of the Act;
       “reserve asset” means an asset that is held by a licensee to back
the value of its stablecoin issued and held strictly for discharging
liabilities arising from the issuance of stablecoin;
      “seizure order” means an order issued by a competent court or
other lawful authority directing the taking of possession or control of
specified virtual assets for purposes of preservation or forfeiture;
     “significant shareholder” means a person including a beneficial
owner, other than the Government or public body, who holds, directly
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4261

or indirectly, or otherwise has a beneficial interest amounting to more
than ten percent of the share capital of a company;
       “stablecoin” has the meaning assigned to it under section 2 of the
Act;
      “shareholders funds” means the net worth of a company,
calculated as total assets minus total liabilities;
      “tokenization” or “tokenize” means the process of converting
real-world assets into digital tokens on a distributed ledger technology;
      “virtual assets” has the meaning assigned to it under section 2 of
the Act; and
      “white paper” means a disclosure document published by or on
behalf of a virtual asset offering provider prior to the offer, issue, or
admission to trading of a virtual asset, containing such information as
specified in these Regulations.
      3. The object and purpose of these Regulations is to provide—         Objects and
                                                                            purpose of these
                                                                            Regulations.
       (a) a framework for the licensing and regulation of persons
           offering virtual asset services in Kenya;
       (b) for the regulation of advertisements and promotions of
           virtual assets by licensed persons;
       (c) for the financial and capital requirements for the various
           types of virtual asset service providers; and
       (d) for the implementation of freezing and seizure orders of
           virtual assets.
       4. (1) These Regulations shall apply to persons offering virtual     Application of the
asset services in or from Kenya.                                            Regulations.

       (2) For purposes of subregulation (1), a person is deemed to be
operating “in or from Kenya” where that person actively solicits or
targets local consumers, or derives an economic benefit or income from
Kenya, regardless of whether the person has physical presence in
Kenya or not.
       5. (1) The fees payable under these Regulations shall be as set      Fees payable.
out in the First Schedule to these Regulations.
       (2) The withdrawal of any application lodged under these
Regulations shall result in the forfeiture of the application fee.
PART II—LICENSING AND AUTHORIZATION REQUIREMENTS
      6. (1) An application for a licence to offer one or more of the       Application for a
permissible activities under section 10(1) of the Act shall be made in      licence.
the form set out in the Second Schedule.
     (2) An application for a licence under subregulation (1) shall be
accompanied by—
       (a) the personal details, qualifications, experience, business
           interests and occupation of the applicant’s—
4262                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

       (i) directors;
       (ii) senior officers;
       (iii) significant shareholders;
       (iv) beneficial owners;
  (b) a business plan prepared in accordance with the Third
      Schedule to these Regulations;
  (c) a duly filled fit and proper assessment form as provided for
      in the Fourth Schedule to these Regulations;
  (d) proof of source of funds;
  (e) a description of the systems and controls of the proposed
      virtual asset business;
  (f) the operational policies that shall guide the applicant’s
      activities, including—
      (i) the risk management policies;
      (ii) the AML/CFT/CPF policies;
      (iii) the data protection and privacy policy;
      (iv) the cybersecurity and information technology policy;
      (v) the complaints management policy;
      (vi) the market conduct policy;
      (vii) the consumer protection policy;
      (viii) the conflict of interest policy;
      (ix) a business continuity and disaster recovery plan;
  (g) copies of contracts and any arrangements for oversight of
      activities;
  (h) evidence of the paid-up capital and liquid capital at the
      amount specified in the Fifth Schedule;
  (i) the audited financial statements for three years prior to the
      submission of the application or in the case of a newly
      incorporated applicant the opening financial statements
      verified by an auditor, as applicable;
  (j) where the applicant is a subsidiary of a foreign incorporated
      parent entity, the audited consolidated financial statements of
      the parent entity for three years prior to the submission of the
      application;
  (k) evidence of the existence of human and technology resources
      as required under regulation 18;
  (l) an independent information systems audit report, including a
      vulnerability assessment and penetration test, prepared by a
      person who holds the relevant qualifications and
      competences;
  (m) full disclosure of cross-border operations, affiliates, and
      regulatory status in other jurisdictions;
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4263

      (n) in the case of virtual asset exchange, token issuance
          platforms, virtual asset offerings and virtual asset wallet
          providers, the business rules of the applicant prepared in
          accordance with regulation 20;
      (o) evidence of the existence of systems and controls to maintain
          market integrity, including the avoidance of market abuse;
      (p) the class of virtual assets intended to be traded or available
          for subscription;
      (q) the details of the applicant’s principal business address and
          website;
      (r) a certified copy of the certificate of incorporation of the
          applicant;
      (s) up-to-date details of the directors and shareholders of the
          applicant issued by the Registrar of Companies;
      (t) a copy of the register of beneficial owners prepared and
          issued by the Registrar of Companies; and
      (u) proof of payment of the application fee specified in the First
          Schedule to these Regulations.
      (3) An applicant shall, upon the request of the relevant
regulatory authority, participate in an interview, to obtain further
information concerning its application or supporting information and
records.
      (4) Within thirty days of receipt of all documents and information
required under subregulation (2) and completion of due diligence on
the applicant, the relevant regulatory authority shall determine the
application and notify the applicant of its decision thereof.
      (5) The relevant regulatory authority may grant a licence to an
applicant to offer more than one permissible activity where the relevant
regulatory authority determines that such activities—
      (a) constitute distinct lines of business with independent risk
          profiles, infrastructure or operational control;
      (b) share common infrastructure, risk profiles or operational
          control.
      7. Where an applicant meets the requirements of section 11 of         Issuance of
the Act, the relevant regulatory authority may issue the applicant with a   licence.
virtual asset service providers licence upon payment of licence fees
specified under the First Schedule.
      8. Upon grant of a licence under these Regulations, a licensee        Commencement
shall commence its virtual asset business within twelve months of the       of virtual asset
                                                                            business.
date of grant of the licence.
      9. (1) An applicant for a licence under regulation 6 shall, within    Alteration of facts
two days of the change, give written notice to the relevant regulatory      disclosed in
                                                                            application.
authority of—
   4264                   Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

     (a) any proposed alteration to the information in the original
         application; or
     (b) the occurrence of any material event that affects or may
         affect information provided to the relevant regulatory
         authority, in the application.
      (2) For purposes of subregulation (1)(b), “material event”
includes—
     (a) failure or material degradation of a proposed critical third-
         party service provider;
     (b) any litigation or dispute resolution activity undertaken or
         affecting the applicant;
     (c) insolvency, a material liquidity shortfall or credible threat to
         solvency;
     (d) an enforcement action, criminal investigation or sanction that
         affects the applicant;
     (e) a cybersecurity incident;
     (f) any intended change in ownership and actual change or
         control that is material to the applicant;
     (g) any change in business model, senior officers or risk profile;
         or
     (h) an action or incident that directly or indirectly affects the
         general business operations of the applicant.
       10. The relevant regulatory authority may reject an application       Grounds for
for a licence where—                                                         rejection of an
                                                                             application.
     (a) the applicant fails to respond to requests for clarification or
         further information from the relevant regulatory authority
         concerning its application or any of the supporting
         information or records;
     (b) the applicant fails to comply with a request to participate in
         an interview made under regulation 6(3);
     (c) the applicant’s directors, senior officers or beneficial owners
         fail to meet the fit and proper criteria set out in section 18 of
         the Act;
     (d) the applicant has a record of regulatory breaches or non-
         compliance with prudential, AML/CFT/CPF or other
         regulatory requirements, either in Kenya or other
         jurisdiction, in which the applicant is or has been licensed as
         a virtual asset service provider; or
     (e) the approval of the application poses a risk to the stability of
         the financial system.
     11. (1) A licence granted under regulation 7 may, on expiry, be         Renewal of
renewed on an annual basis.                                                  licence.
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4265

      (2) An application for the renewal of a licence shall be lodged
with the relevant regulatory authority at least two months prior to the
expiry of the licence.
      (3) An application for renewal of a licence shall be—
      (a) in the form set out in the Second Schedule to these
          Regulations; and
      (b) accompanied by the renewal fee set out in the First Schedule
          to these Regulations.
      12. (1) A person shall not, in connection with an application         False and
submitted to the relevant regulatory authority for grant or renewal of a    misleading
                                                                            statements.
licence under these Regulations—
      (a) make a statement to the relevant regulatory authority which
          he or she knows or ought reasonably to know is false or
          misleading; or
      (b) omit to state any matter to the relevant regulatory authority
          where he or she knows or ought reasonably to know that,
          because of the omission, the application is misleading.
      (2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subregulation
(1) commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a penalty
specified in regulation 143.
      13. (1) A licensee seeking to assign or transfer a licence issued     Assignment and
under these Regulations shall, in writing and on payment of the fee set     transfer of
                                                                            licence.
out in the First Schedule, make an application to the relevant regulatory
authority for the assignment or transfer of the licence.
      (2) An application under subregulation (1) shall only be
considered if the licensee—
      (a) has commenced virtual asset business and operated in
           accordance with any conditions imposed on the licence;
      (b) held the licence for a minimum period of thirty-six months
           from the date of commencement of business; and
      (c) has fully complied with provisions of these Regulations.
      (3) In determining an application for transfer or assignment of a
licence under this regulation, the relevant regulatory authority shall
consider whether—
      (a) the transferee meets all requirements for licensing under the
           Act and these Regulations;
      (b) the applicant has paid all outstanding fees and penalties, if
           any, relating to the licence;
      (c) the applicant has any outstanding non-compliance matters;
      (d) the transfer is necessary in the best interest of the business,
           its consumers or financial stability.
      (4) An assignment or transfer of a licence effected without the
approval of the relevant regulatory authority under this regulation shall
be void and constitute grounds for the revocation of the licence.
   4266                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

       14. (1) A person seeking to transact the business of conversion        Authorisation for
of virtual assets to or from foreign currency shall, before commencing        conversion of
                                                                              virtual assets.
such conversion business, apply to the Central Bank of Kenya for
authorisation.
      (2) An application under subregulation (1) shall be made in
writing to the Central Bank of Kenya.
      (3) In considering an application under subregulation (1), the
Central Bank of Kenya shall take into consideration the financial
condition and history of the applicant.
      (4) Within ten days of making a determination of an application
under this regulation, the Central Bank of Kenya shall notify the
applicant of its decision.
       (5) An authorisation issued under this regulation shall, unless
earlier revoked, be valid from the date it is issued and shall expire on
the 31st December of the year it is issued.
       (6) A person who undertakes conversion business under sub
regulation (1) without the authorisation of the Central Bank of Kenya
shall be liable to the administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
      15. (1) An authorisation granted under regulation 14 may, on            Renewal of
expiry, be renewed on an annual basis.                                        authorisation.

      (2) An application for the renewal of an authorization shall be
lodged with the Central Bank of Kenya at least two months prior to the
expiry of the authorisation.
     (3) An application for renewal under subregulation (1) shall be
made in writing and determined in accordance with regulation 14.
      16. (1) The Central Bank of Kenya may, by notice in writing,            Revocation of
revoke or suspend an authorisation granted under regulation 14, if the        authorisation.
authorised person—
      (a) ceases to carry on business in Kenya or goes into liquidation
          or is wound up, or is otherwise dissolved;
      (b) fails to comply with the provisions of these Regulations or
          any condition attached to an authorisation; or
      (c) conducts business in a manner that poses a risk to the
          stability of the financial system.
      (2) Before revoking or suspending an authorization under this
regulation, the Central Bank of Kenya shall give an authorized person,
at least fourteen days’ notice and shall consider any representations
made to it in writing by the authorised person.
    PART III —PROVISIONS ON ONGOING REQUIREMENTS
      17. (1) Every licensee shall ensure that its virtual asset services     Ongoing
are conducted in a fair, transparent and efficient manner for the purpose     obligations.
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                         4267

of reducing any systemic or any other type of risk that may adversely
affect fair and orderly provision of virtual asset services.
      (2) A licensee shall, in writing, submit to the relevant regulatory
authority a report addressing matters affecting the virtual assets
business.
      (3) The report referred to in subregulation (2) may include—
      (a) ongoing compliance by the licensee with the terms of the
          licence;
      (b) complaints received and resolutions reached;
      (c) disciplinary matters arising and dealt with;
      (d) the adequacy and performance of systems and controls; and
      (e) the financial matters concerning the operation of the virtual
          asset business.
      18. (1) A licensee shall have sufficient human and technology          Human and
resources to operate a virtual asset business.                               technology
                                                                             resources.
      (2) For purposes of subregulation (1), a licensee shall—
      (a) employ fit and proper staff, appropriately trained for the
          duties to be performed;
      (b) appoint a management team with adequate levels of
          experience and expertise to supervise and monitor the
          operations of the virtual asset business;
      (c) establish and maintain technology resources in such a way as
          to ensure that they are secure and maintain the
          confidentiality of the data they contain; and
      (d) maintain details of systems and associated technologies
          adopted by the applicant.
      19. A virtual asset service provider shall establish and operate       Virtual asset
proper markets that are conducive to the economic good of the country        service provider
                                                                             to establish proper
and that do not cause or promote financial instability.                      markets.
       20. (1) A licensee dealing in virtual asset exchange shall have       Business and
clear and fair business rules which are—                                     default rules.

      (a) legally enforceable by consumers; and
      (b) published and made freely available.
      (2) A licensee shall develop and maintain compliance procedures
to ensure that—
      (a) the business rules in subregulation (1) are enforced;
      (b) the complaints relating to its virtual asset services and appeal
          procedures are available;
      (c) where appropriate, a disciplinary action resulting in financial
          and other types of penalties is available; and
   4268                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (d) the procedure for detecting, preventing and reporting any
          form of market abuse is available.
      (3) The business rules under subregulation (1) shall be approved
by the relevant regulatory authority.
      (4) The business rules in subregulation (1) shall specify the class
of virtual assets traded on or available for subscription, and
requirements relating to—
      (a) a licensee’s financial reporting including how regular reports
          are made and the applicable accounting standards;
      (b) the auditing standards;
      (c) the licencee’s track record in terms of profit or operating
          history; and
      (d) any restrictions that may exist on transferability for a virtual
          asset.
      (5) A virtual asset exchange or token issuance platform provider
shall develop default rules which in the event of a purchaser or
consumer being or appearing to be unable to fulfil its obligations in
respect of one or more contracts, enables action to be taken with respect
to unsettled virtual asset transactions to which the consumer is a party.
      (6) A virtual asset exchange or token issuance platform shall
develop and submit to the relevant regulatory authority, business rules
containing provisions relating to—
      (a) methods of access to its platform;
      (b) hours of operation, exchange availability and interruptions;
      (c) admission, suspension or delisting of virtual assets from
          trading on the exchange or platform;
      (d) the conditions governing dealings in virtual assets and
          investor protection measures;
      (e) asset custody arrangements;
      (f) prompt and real-time disclosure to all investors of material
          information;
      (g) order submission procedures, order minimums and order
          types;
      (h) market data, pre and post trade transparency;
      (i) prevention of market abuse and other prohibited conduct;
      (j) investigation into trading in virtual asset transactions and for
          conducting inspections;
      (k) suspension of trading for the protection of investors or for
          the conduct of orderly and fair trading;
      (l) the conduct of virtual assets trading and the form in which
          information relating to transactions is to be maintained and
          reported to the virtual asset exchange;
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4269

      (m) dispute resolution mechanisms;
      (n) trading fees chargeable;
      (o) requirements on funding of accounts;
      (p) order matching and order matching priorities;
      (q) trade settlement and confirmation;
      (r) deposit and withdrawal procedures; and
      (s) the manner of undertaking due diligence in line with
          regulation 33(2) of these Regulations.
      21. (1) A licensee shall develop and maintain formalised                Business
business continuity and incident response plans as approved by its            continuity and
                                                                              incident response
board of directors.                                                           plans.
      (2) The plans under subregulation (1) shall outline—
      (a) the resource requirements such as people, systems and other
          assets, and arrangements for obtaining these resources;
      (b) the recovery priorities for the licensee' operations;
      (c) communication arrangements for internal and external
          concerned parties;
      (d) identification of critical services, recovery time objectives
          and backup arrangements; and
      (e) maintaining of an incident response plan on detection,
          escalation, containment, recovery, and coordination.
      (3) A licensee shall annually review and test its business
continuity and incident response plans to ensure that it is up-to-date.
      (4) A licensee shall make available its business continuity and
incident response plans or its report depicting the results of its business
continuity testing to the relevant regulatory authority.
      (5) Where a person contravenes the requirement of this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority shall impose the
administrative penalty specified in regulation 142.
      22. (1) Pursuant to section 44 of the Act, a licensee shall—            Transaction
                                                                              information.
      (a) record the activity and transactions effected on or through its
          distributed ledger technology platform;
      (b) maintain the activity and transaction records for at least
          seven years; and
      (c) provide the relevant regulatory authority or any competent
          authority with such records, in a timely manner, as the
          relevant regulatory authority or competent authority may
          require.
      (2) The information referred to under subregulation (1) shall
include technical and contextual metadata on transactions including
wallet addresses, network or chain identifiers and interaction logs.
   4270                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      23. A licensee shall have appropriate procedures and protection         Disclosure of
measures for allowing employees to disclose any information to the            information by
                                                                              employees.
relevant regulatory authority, competent authorities or comparable
bodies involved in the prevention of market abuse, financial crime,
money laundering, terrorism financing or proliferation financing.
      24. (1) A licensee shall make the following disclosures to its          Disclosure of
consumers in a clear and non-technical language prior to engaging in          information to
                                                                              consumers.
any transaction or providing any service—
      (a) full details of the current licence status, including the
          specific categories of virtual asset services for which it is
          licenced by the relevant regulatory authority;
      (b) the full legal name, physical address of the principal office in
          Kenya and their contact information;
      (c) a clear and up-to-date disclosure of any actual conflicts of
          interest from the licensee’s activities including a description
          of the mechanisms employed to identify, manage, or mitigate
          such conflicts;
      (d) a publicly accessible policy outlining the procedure for
          handling consumer complaints, including the maximum
          response time and the escalation path to the relevant
          regulatory authority;
      (e) an accurate description of the nature of virtual asset services
          offered, features, characteristics and limitations;
      (f) a comprehensive statement of the risks associated with the
          virtual asset and the services provided, including the market
          volatility, technology and cybersecurity risks associated with
          the investment;
      (g) any applicable fees, commissions or other charges in the
          provision of their services and the timing of payment for the
          fees;
      (h) the procedures for withdrawals, suspension and cancellation
          of transactions;
      (i) the security protocols employed for transaction execution,
          consumer authentication, and data protection;
      (j) the measures in place to ensure business continuity and
          recovery in the event of a system failure or cyber incident;
          and
      (k) any changes in business operations, ownership, management,
          terms of service or rates and charges.
      (2) In furtherance to subregulation (1), a licensee shall not, in any
written communication or agreement, exclude or restrict—
      (a) any duty or liability to a consumer which it has under any
          law or under any regulations made by the relevant regulatory
          authority;
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4271

      (b) any liability owed to a consumer for failure to exercise the
          degree of skill, care and diligence that may reasonably be
          expected of it in the provision of the service of a regulated
          activity;
      (c) any duty to act with skill, care and diligence that is owed to a
          consumer in connection with the provision to him of her of
          the service of a regulated activity.
      (3) A licensee may not charge the consumer for fulfilment of its
disclosure and information obligations under these Regulations.
      25. (1) A licensee shall seek information about the consumer           Consumer
and the consumer’s circumstances to ensure that the services provided        information.
are consistent with those circumstances.
      (2) Notwithstanding the generality of subregulation (1), a
licensee shall —
      (a) when recommending investments to a consumer or where it
         has discretion to act on behalf of a consumer, take and
         document reasonable steps to the effect that the
         recommendation or discretionary action is suitable for the
         consumer, taking account of all the available alternatives;
      (b) not recommend, or where the licensee has discretion to act
         on behalf of a consumer, execute any sale or purchase that is
         unsuitable for the consumer.
      (3) A licensee shall ensure that it does not advice or effect a
transaction, on behalf of a consumer, unless the advice or transaction is
suitable for the consumer based on the facts disclosed by the consumer
and any other relevant fact about the consumer that the licensee is or
ought to be reasonably aware of.
      26. (1) A licensee shall use systems which are able to provide         Record keeping
an accurate and fully accessible audit trail of all transactions.            and submission of
                                                                             reports.

      (2) A licensee shall, on a monthly basis and by the tenth day of
the following calendar month, submit reports to the relevant regulatory
authority information regarding—
      (a) the volumes, values and geographic distribution of each
          virtual asset transfer or payment offered by it;
      (b) incidents of fraud, theft or robbery;
      (c) material service interruptions and major security breaches;
      (d) complaints reported, including remedial measures taken,
          those resolved and those outstanding.
      (3) Unless otherwise provided, the records kept under this
regulation shall be retained and securely stored for a period of not less
than seven years beginning from the date the transaction occurred.
   4272                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      27. The relevant regulatory authority may—                            Provision of
                                                                            information
                                                                            required by the
                                                                            relevant
                                                                            regulatory
                                                                            authority.
      (a) require an officer of the licensee to produce or furnish to the
          relevant regulatory authority or officer making an
          examination—
          (i)    the books of accounts and documents in the custody or
                 power of the licensee;
          (ii)   statements or information relating to the affairs of
                 licensee as may be required by the examining officer;
      (b) by notice, require a licensee to provide information to the
          relevant regulatory authority for the purposes of assessing
          compliance with these Regulations;
      (c) at any time, enter any premises where a licensee is carrying
          on business, or any premises where the relevant regulatory
          authority reasonably suspects that any business is carried out
          in contravention of these Regulations.
      28. (1) A licensee shall maintain a register of interests             Register of
disclosing any holdings, directorships, or beneficial interests of          interests.
directors, senior officers, or associated parties in any virtual asset
service provider.
      (2) The register shall be reviewed at least annually and made
available to the relevant regulatory authority upon request.
       29. (1) Pursuant to section 27 of the Act, where a person desires    Ownership
to directly or indirectly acquire, transfer or dispose—                     changes.

     (a) not more than ten percent of shares or an interest in a
         licensee, that person shall, in writing, notify the relevant
         regulatory authority prior to such acquisition, transfer or
         disposal; or
     (b) more than ten percent of shares or an interest in a licensee,
         that person shall seek the approval of the relevant regulatory
         authority of such acquisition, transfer or disposal.
      (2) An application under subregulation (1)(b) shall be made in
writing and accompanied by the fees specified in the First Schedule and
include such information as is necessary to enable the relevant
regulatory authority to consider the proposed acquisition, transfer or
disposal in relation to—
      (a) the nature of the proposed acquisition, disposal or transfer;
      (b) the identity of the proposed acquirer or acquiree and any
          person who has control or management of the proposed
          acquirer;
      (c) how the proposed acquisition, transfer or disposal is to be
          financed.
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4273

      (3) In assessing a proposed acquisition, transfer or disposal, the
relevant regulatory authority shall have regard to—
      (a) the suitability and character of the proposed acquirer;
      (b) the ability of the proposed acquirer to conduct the business
          of the licensee in the long term;
      (c) the reputation, knowledge, skills and experience of any
          person who will direct the business of the licensee as a result
          of the proposed acquisition, transfer or disposal;
      (d) the fitness and probity of any new directors, significant
          shareholders and senior officers appointed as a result of the
          proposed acquisition, transfer or disposal;
      (e) the financial soundness of the proposed acquisition, transfer
          or disposal;
      (f) the source of funds of the acquirer;
      (g) whether the licensee will be able to comply and continue to
          comply with the provisions of the Act and these Regulations;
          and
      (h) whether there are reasonable grounds to suspect that, in
          connection with the proposed acquisition, disposal or
          transfer, financial crime, money laundering, terrorism
          financing or proliferation financing is being or has been
          committed or attempted or could increase the risk thereof.
      (4) Within ten days of making a determination under this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority shall notify the applicant of
the grant or refusal of the application.
      (5) Where a person —
      (a) reduces their direct or indirect shareholding or interest in a
          licensee to less than ten percent to avoid the requirement for
          approval under subregulation (1); or
      (b) exercises direct or indirect control of shareholding or interest
          in a licensee of more than ten percent through their
          associates or proxies,
      that person shall obtain the approval of the relevant regulatory
authority of such transfer or disposal under this regulation.
      (6) For the purposes of this regulation, the relevant regulatory
authority may consult the competent authorities responsible for mergers
and acquisitions and AML/CFT/CPF in granting or declining its
approval.
      30. (1) A licensee shall—                                               Conflict of
                                                                              interest.
      (a) identify and document the conflicts of interest that are likely
          to occur in the course of its regulated activity;
      (b) adopt and document appropriate policies to minimize those
          conflicts by identifying the instances where it would refuse
   4274                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

          to act and, where this is not necessary, making arrangements
          to minimize the risk of any loss to the consumer; and
      (c) avoid any conflict of interest between itself and a consumer
          and where such a conflict exists, decline to act, or if it
          considers that the conflict can be managed, disclose it to the
          consumer and follow the policies developed to minimize
          damage to the consumer and to put the consumer’s interests
          ahead of its own.
       (2) A licensee shall not take advantage of information it obtained
from providing services to a consumer for its own benefit or the benefit
of its employees or the benefit of another consumer, and where such an
eventuality is likely to occur, the licensee shall—
      (a) adopt and document procedures, including the erection of
          information barriers, barriers between information
          technology systems, physical barriers or even separate office
          locations, to minimise the possibility of information from
          one consumer being used for the benefit of another
          consumer, its employees or the licensee;
      (b) train employees in matters relating to the conflict of interest
          and the procedures developed to avoid them; and
      (c) obtain undertakings from employees that they will not use
          information gained from the consumers for their personal
          benefit.
      (3) Where a licensee has a material interest in a transaction to be
entered into with or for a consumer, or a relationship which gives rise
to a conflict of interest, the licensee shall not, knowingly, advise, or
exercise discretion, in relation to that transaction unless it has—
      (a) disclosed the material interest or relationship that may give
          rise to a conflict, as the case may be, to the consumer; or
      (b) taken reasonable steps to ensure that neither the material
          interest nor relationship would adversely affect the interests
          of the consumer.
      (4) A licensee shall take reasonable steps to ensure that neither it
nor any of its employees or agents offers or gives, or solicits or accepts,
any inducement that is likely to conflict with any of the duties owed to
consumers.
      31. (1) A licensee shall, at the point of service, provide—             Information at
                                                                              point of service.
      (a) a clear and understandable description of the services which
          it offers and the rates, terms, conditions and charges for such
          services;
      (b) clear terms of service to its consumers and agents;
      (c) the name of the licensee;
      (d) a telephone number or such other contact medium which
          provides access to its consumer care system.
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                          4275

      (2) The information referred to under sub regulation (1) shall be
published and displayed conspicuously at all points of service.
      32. (1) A licensee shall perform customer due diligence prior to         Performance of
onboarding a consumer by identifying and verifying the identity details        customer due
                                                                               diligence prior to
of the consumer for purposes of these Regulations.                             onboarding.
      (2) The performance of customer due diligence under
subregulation (1) shall be done in accordance with the obligations
imposed under the Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money Laundering.                 Cap. 59A.
      33. (1) A virtual asset exchange or token issuance platform              Performance of
provider shall perform due diligence on all virtual assets before              due diligence
                                                                               before admission
including them for trading on the exchange or platform.                        for trading.
      (2) In the performance of due diligence under subregulation (1),
the virtual asset exchange or token issuance platform provider shall
take into consideration—
      (a) the regulatory status of the virtual asset and whether its
          regulatory status would also affect the regulatory obligations
          of the virtual asset exchange and token issuance platform
          provider;
      (b) the supply, demand, maturity and liquidity of a virtual asset;
      (c) the complexity and development of the virtual asset;
      (d) the risks associated with the virtual asset and its issuer;
      (e) the enforceability of any consumer rights relating to the
          virtual asset;
      (f) market capitalization and trading volume;
      (g) technical security audits, including smart contract reviews;
      (h) project fundamentals such as token distribution and
          community support;
      (i) legal and compliance assessments, including AML/CFT/CPF
          safeguards and avoidance of regulatory risks.
      (3) A virtual asset exchange or token issuance platform provider
shall maintain a record of the due diligence assessment under
subregulation (1) for the duration of the listing of the virtual asset on
the exchange or platform.
       (4) A virtual asset exchange or token issuance platform provider
shall continuously monitor each virtual asset admitted for trading on
the exchange or the platform to determine the viability of that virtual
asset to continue or cease trading.
      34. A licensee shall, in respect of every contract for the               Transaction
exchange, purchase or sale of a virtual asset it has entered into, not later   confirmation.
than the end of the trading day after the contract was entered into, make
out and send to the consumer, a confirmation with respect to the
transaction.
   4276                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

       35. A licensee shall give priority to client orders over its own      Fair allocation.
proprietary orders when executing transactions in the same virtual
asset.
      (2) The service provider shall not execute, place, or arrange
proprietary trades in a manner that disadvantages, delays, or is likely to
disadvantage or delay the execution of client orders.
      36. A licensee shall ensure that any transaction it executes are       Timely allocation.
allocated to the consumers who gave the orders in a timely manner.
      37. A licensee shall report to the relevant regulatory authority all   Off-market
trades facilitated by the licensee in virtual assets dealt with otherwise    transactions.
than at a licensed virtual asset exchange or token issuance platform
provider.
      38. (1) Pursuant to section 35(1) of the Act, the relevant             Inspection and
regulatory authority may conduct inspections and investigations              investigation.
including routine onsite and offsite inspections to assess compliance
with the Act and these Regulations.
      (2) Where the relevant regulatory authority exercises the powers
under subregulation (1), the licensee shall—
      (a) grant full access to premises, systems, and records;
      (b) provide explanations, clarifications or data as requested; and
      (c) implement remedial measures within such period as the
          relevant regulatory authority may specify.
      (3) In furtherance of its powers under this regulation, the relevant
regulatory authority shall maintain continuous surveillance of market
conduct, transactional activity and systemic risk using data analytics
and reporting tools.
      (4) The relevant regulatory authorities may jointly undertake
compliance inspections and investigations to assess compliance with
the Act and these Regulations.
     39. The board of directors of a licensee shall appoint or designate     Compliance
a compliance officer who shall—                                              officer.

      (a) monitor compliance with the regulatory requirements
          provided under the Act and these Regulations, and shall not
          be involved with any function that is the subject of
          compliance;
      (b) have sufficient authority to carry out such function;
      (c) have unfettered access to information;
      (d) have direct access to the board of directors;
      (e) take necessary action to rectify any non- compliance;
      (f) report any non-compliance issues that cannot be rectified to
          the board of directors;
      (g) report to the board of directors any material breaches of the
          regulatory requirements;
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4277

     (h) submit an annual corporate governance report to the board of
         directors; and
     (i) ensure that conflict of interest is avoided in the performance
         of compliance function and other institutional functions.
      40. (1) A licensee shall have a comprehensive risk management          Risk management.
framework to identify, evaluate, monitor and control or mitigate all
material risks in a manner commensurate with their size, complexity
and risk profile.
     (2) For the purposes of subregulation (1), a licensee shall comply
with—
    (a)    any technical standards issued by the relevant regulatory
          authority in accordance with section 6(1)(c) and (1)(d) of the
          Act; and
    (b)    any applicable international standards and risk management
          guidelines which may be required by the relevant regulatory
          authority.
   PART IV—CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS
      41. (1) A licensee shall establish effective, transparent and          Governance
adequate governance arrangements to ensure continued integrity of its        arrangements.
services.
     (2) The governance arrangements                 established    under
subregulation (1) shall include—
     (a) a board of directors consisting of persons who meet the fit
         and proper criteria set out in section 18 of the Act;
     (b) clearly defined and documented organisational structure
         including ownership, oversight and management structure;
     (c) segregation of duties and internal control arrangements; and
     (d) the separation of virtual asset business by the licensee in a
         separate business unit from its other business units, including
         maintaining a separate management structure and keeping
         separate books of account.
       (3) A licensee shall establish adequate operational arrangements
for its services.
      (4) The operational arrangements established under subregulation
(3) shall include—
    (a)     rules and procedures setting out the rights and liabilities of
          the licensee and the consumer;
    (b)    the risks the consumer may incur;
    (c)     measures to ensure prudent management of the funds
          collected from consumers, including measures to ensure that
          such funds are available at all times for repayment to
          consumers;
   4278                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

    (d)    measures to ensure safety, security and operational reliability
          of the service, including contingency arrangements; and
      (e) the maintenance of separate records and accounts for
          provision of services from other business activities.
      42. (1) The board of directors of a licensee shall consist of—         Board of
                                                                             directors.
      (a) at least three members of whom one-third shall be
          independent directors; and
      (b) not more than one-third of the directors shall be related to
          any director.
     (2) The chairperson or a director of the board shall not be
appointed as the chief executive officer of the licensee.
      (3) The board of a licensee shall specify the roles and
responsibilities of the chairperson in writing.
      (4) For purposes of this regulation, an “independent director”
means a person who—
    (a) has not been employed by the licensee in an executive
         capacity within the last five years;
    (b) is not associated to an adviser or consultant to the licensee or
         a member of the licensee’s senior management or a person
         employed by the licensee in an executive capacity within the
         last five years;
    (c) is not associated to a significant consumer or supplier of the
         licensee or has not had any business relationship with the
         licensee within the last five years;
    (d) does not have a contract of service with the virtual asset
         service provider, or a member of the licensee senior
         management;
    (e) is not a close relation of an adviser or consultant to the
         licensee or a member of the licensee senior management;
    (f)     has not had any of the relationships described in paragraphs
          (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) with any affiliate of the licensee.
      43. (1) The board of directors of a licensee shall be collectively     Role of the board
responsible for the conduct and governance of its virtual asset business     of directors.
and in particular shall—
      (a) give strategic direction and provide effective oversight to a
          licensee;
      (b) ensure the integrity of the licensee’s accounting and financial
          reporting systems;
      (c) manage risks affecting the regulated activity and shall
          regularly review the effectiveness of the risk management
          process; and
      (d) ensure that the licensee complies with the Act and other
          relevant laws.
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4279

       (2) The board of directors of a licensee may establish such
committees, including an audit committee and a risk management
committee, as it may consider necessary to assist it in the performance
of its functions.
      (3) The board of directors of a licensee shall not be discharged
from its duties and responsibilities for matters or authority delegated to
committees of the board or to the management of a licensee.
      44. A person shall qualify for appointment or designation as the       Chief executive
chief executive officer of a licensee under section 30(1) of the Act, if     officer.
that person—
      (a) meets the fit and proper requirements specified under section
          18 of the Act;
      (b) possesses professional competence in virtual assets or other
          fields relevant to the operations of virtual asset business; and
      (c) is domiciled in Kenya.
       45. The persons responsible for the management of finance             Finance officers
function and the internal audit function in a licensee shall be members      and internal
                                                                             auditors.
of good standing in the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of
Kenya or an equivalent international professional body recognised by
Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya.
PART V — INTERVENTION AND STATUTORY MANAGEMENT
    46. (1) The relevant regulatory authority may intervene in the           Intervention in
management of a licensee where a licensee fails to —                         management.

      (a) meet its obligations to its customers;
      (b) meet its financial obligations to other licensees;
      (c) comply with a directive issued by the relevant regulatory
         authority;
      (d) comply with the provisions of the Act.
      (2) Where subregulation (1) applies, the relevant regulatory
authority may—
      (a) appoint a statutory manager in accordance with regulation
          47;
      (b) remove any officer or employee of a licensee who has
          caused or contributed to the contravention of any provision
          of the Act;
      (c) restrict the licensee from engaging in new virtual asset
          services;
      (d) prohibit the licensee from engaging any new agents or direct
          the licensee to terminate any agency arrangement.
      47. (1) Where the relevant regulatory authority suspends or            Statutory
revokes a licence under section 15 of the Act, the relevant regulatory       management upon
                                                                             suspension or
authority may, by notice in the Gazette, appoint a statutory manager to      revocation.
manage consumer assets for a period not exceeding twelve months.
   4280                   Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (2) The term of the statutory manager may be extended for a
further term not exceeding twelve months with the approval of a
competent court.
     48. (1) The functions of a statutory manager shall include—            Functions and
                                                                            powers of a
                                                                            statutory manager
                                                                            under regulation
                                                                            47.
     (a) taking control of the assets of the licensee for purposes of
         safeguarding monies and virtual assets belonging to
         consumers; and
     (b) overseeing and administering the settlement of monies and
         virtual assets belonging to consumers.
      (2) A statutory manager shall have powers necessary for the
performance of his or her functions under subregulation (1) and in
particular shall have the power to declare a moratorium for purposes of
safeguarding monies and virtual assets belonging to consumers.
      (3) The moratorium referred to in subregulation (2) shall be
applied equally and without discrimination to all classes of creditors:
       Provided that the statutory manager may offset the liabilities
owed by the licensed person to any creditor against any debts owed by
that creditor to the licensed person.
      (4) Where the statutory manager has assumed control of a
licensee, that statutory manager shall have the power to—
     (a) enter into any premises of licensee and take possession and
         control of the assets and require any person in the premises
         to account for and deliver up to the statutory manager
         possession and control of the assets;
     (b) sell or otherwise dispose of any asset that is subject to an
         agreement creating a security interest to any person who
         agrees to assume the obligation secured by the security
         interest;
     (c) subject to paragraph (b), sell or otherwise dispose of the
         assets and business undertaking of the licensee by private
         treaty or public sale or in such other manner and on such
         terms and conditions as the statutory manager deems
         appropriate;
     (d) arrange for the assumption of all or any part of the liabilities
         of a licensee by a person;
     (e) carry on the business of a licensee to the extent that the
         statutory manager deems necessary or beneficial;
     (f) sue for, defend, compromise and settle, in the name of the
         licensee, any claim made by or against it;
     (g) in the name of the licensee, do all acts and execute all
         receipts and other documents; and
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                      4281

     (h) recover out of the assets of the licensee all the costs, charges
         and expenses, including remuneration, properly incurred by
         the statutory manager in the exercise of powers, in priority to
         all other claims.
      (5) Where the statutory manager exercises one or more powers
under this regulation, the statutory manager shall not, by reason of the
exercise of such powers, be held to have assumed or incurred any
obligation or liability of the licensee for its own account.
   PART VI — REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFER OF INITIAL COIN
       OFFERINGS AND LISTINGS FOR VIRTUAL ASSET
                             EXCHANGES
      49. (1) Pursuant to section 34 of the Act, a person seeking to        Application for
issue an initial coin offering shall make an application to the Capital     approval to issue
                                                                            initial coin
Markets Authority for approval.                                             offering.
      (2) In addition to the requirements under regulation 6, an
application made under subregulation (1) shall be accompanied by—
     (a) a white paper with the information provided for under
         regulation 54(3);
     (b) governance structure of the issuer, including the board and
         senior management;
     (c) the policies and procedures for monitoring the cycle of the
         issuing and offering of an initial coin offering;
     (d) the information where the proceeds raised will be transferred
         or deposited;
     (e) the location where the information as required by these
         Regulations shall be retained and be accessible in Kenya;
     (f) the details and confirmation of the promoter; and
     (g) the application fee specified in the First Schedule to these
         Regulations.
      (3) An applicant may withdraw an application by giving written
notice, including the reasons thereof, to the Capital Markets Authority,
at any time before the determination of the application.
      50. (1) Within ten days of making a determination of an               Determination of
application under regulation 49, the Capital Markets Authority shall        the application.
notify the applicant of its decision.
     (2) The Capital Markets Authority may reject an application
where—
      (a) the application does not comply with the Act or these
          Regulations;
      (b) the criteria set out in section 34(4) of the Act is not met;
      (c) a white paper does not meet the requirements in regulation
          54(3);
   4282                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (d) the policies and procedures for monitoring the cycle of the
          issuing and offering of an initial coin are insufficient for
          mitigating possible market abuse, mis-selling or fraud risks.
      (3) Where an application under regulation 49(1) is approved, the
Capital Markets Authority shall register the applicant’s details in
accordance with regulation 59.
      (4) An initial coin offering approved under this Part shall be
conducted through trading platforms or systems approved under
regulation 53.
      51. An approval of an offer of an initial coin offering shall be       Validity of
valid for a period not exceeding twelve months                               approval for offer
                                                                             of initial coin
                                                                             offering.
      52. (1) Pursuant to section 34(3) of the Act, a licensee desiring      Approval of
to engage the services of a promoter of a virtual asset offering shall, in   promoter.
writing, apply to the Capital Markets Authority for approval.
      (2) In determining an application under subregulation (1), the
Capital Markets Authority shall take into consideration—
      (a) the financial condition and history of the applicant; and
      (b) whether the promoter is an eligible person under section
          34(2) of the Act.
      (3) Within ten days of making a determination under
subregulation (2), the Capital Markets Authority shall notify the
applicant of its decision.
      (4) The Capital Markets Authority may, by notice in writing,
revoke or suspend an approval granted under this regulation if the
licensee or promoter—
      (a) ceases to carry on business in Kenya, goes into liquidation,
          or is wound up, or is otherwise dissolved;
      (b) fails to comply with the provisions of these Regulations or
          any condition attached to an approval; or
      (c) conducts business in a manner that may pose a risk to the
          stability of the financial system.
       53. (1) A person seeking to deploy a trading system or platform       Approval of
shall, in writing, apply to the Capital Markets Authority for approval.      trading platforms.

      (2) In determining an application under subregulation (1), the
Capital Markets Authority shall take into consideration the ability of
the system or platform to —
      (a) enable real-time public access to trading information;
      (b) incorporate mechanisms for transparent and efficient price
          discovery;
      (c) maintain a complete and tamper-proof audit trail of all
          transactions;
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4283

      (d) implement adequate cybersecurity, resilience and access
          control measures.
      (3) Within ten days of making a determination under
subregulation (1), the Capital Markets Authority shall notify the
applicant of its decision.
       (4) A trading system or platform approved under this regulation
shall retain and securely store all trading and transaction records for at
least seven years beginning from the date the transaction occurred.
      54. (1) An applicant shall publish its white paper upon receipt        Publication of
of notice from the Capital Markets Authority that it has no objection to     white paper for an
                                                                             initial coin
the proposed issuance or promotion.                                          offering.
      (2) The white paper referred to under sub regulation (1) shall
provide full and accurate disclosure of information that will enable an
investor to make an informed assessment before subscribing or
investing.
      (3) The information referred to under subregulation (2) shall
include—
      (a) brief description of the directors, senior officers and advisers
          of the issuer including their name, designation, nationality,
          address, professional qualifications, related experience and
          any involvement or participation in a previous similar
          offering;
      (b) the objective or purpose of initial coin offering including
          information on the project to be managed and operated by
          the issuer;
      (c) the key characteristics of the initial coin offering;
      (d) identification as to whether a virtual asset offering will have
          different classes of holders in relation to any benefits, rights
          or liabilities linked to the offering;
      (e) a detailed description of the sustainability of the project;
      (f) the business plan of the issuer;
      (g) the targeted amount to be raised through the project and
          subsequent use and application of the proceeds thereafter
          illustrated in a scheduled timeline for drawdown and
          utilization of proceeds;
      (h) any rights, conditions or functions attached to the offering,
          including any specific rights;
      (i) the details on the determination of the accounting and the
          valuation treatments for the offering, including all valuation
          methodology and reasonable presumptions adopted in such
          calculation;
      (j) the associated challenges and risks, as well as mitigating
          measures thereof;
   4284                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (k) the information in respect to the distribution of the initial
          coin offering and, where applicable, the distribution policy
          of the issuer of initial coin offering;
      (l) policies on monitoring the cycle of the initial coin offering;
      (m) information about the person, if any, underwriting or
          guaranteeing the project;
      (n) any restrictions on the transferability of the investment
          made;
      (o) methods of payment to invest or subscribe;
      (p) details of refund mechanism or withdrawal rights;
      (q) the target market of the virtual asset including any
          restrictions relating to the type of investors;
      (r) the offer time table;
      (s) the minimum subscription level for the offer to be
          successful;
      (t) details of the authorized status of the promoter or issuer in
          Kenya;
      (u) the audited financial statements of the issuer for three years
          or in the case of a newly incorporated issuer, the opening
          financial statements verified by an auditor as applicable;
      (v) the name of any trading platform for virtual assets where
          admission to trading is or will be sought, and information
          about how investors can access such trading platforms and
          the costs involved;
      (w) information on the technology used, including distributed
          ledger technology, protocols and technical standards,
          allowing for the holding, storing, and transfer of virtual
          assets;
      (x) the issue price of the virtual asset being offered to the public,
          denominated in both Kenya shillings or other virtual assets.
      (4) The board of directors of an issuer shall be responsible for the
information provided in the white paper.
      (5) A person who fails to comply with the requirements of this
regulation is liable to the administrative sanction specified in regulation
142.
      55. (1) An issuer of initial coin offering shall seek the approval      Modification of
of the Capital Markets Authority on any intended change of their              published white
                                                                              paper for an initial
business model likely to have a significant influence on the purchase         coin offering.
decision of any holders or prospective holders of initial coin offering,
which occurs after licensing or after the approval of the virtual asset
white paper.
     (2) The changes envisaged under subregulation (1) include any
material modifications to—
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4285

      (a) the governance arrangements, including reporting lines to the
          board of directors and risk management framework;
      (b) the rights granted to the holder’s virtual asset;
      (c) the functioning of issuers’ proprietary distributed ledger
          technology, where the virtual asset is issued, transferred and
          stored using such a distributed ledger technology;
      (d) the timetable for the offer;
      (e) the mechanisms to ensure the liquidity of virtual asset;
      (f) the arrangements with third-party entities, including for
          managing the reserve assets and the investment of the
          reserve, the custody of reserve assets, and, where applicable,
          the distribution of the virtual asset to the public; or
      (g) the complaints-handling procedures.
      (3) A request for approval under subregulation (1) shall be
accompanied by a draft modified virtual asset white paper and ensure
that the order of the information appearing therein is consistent with
that of the original white paper.
      (4) An issuer of an initial coin offering shall not effect an
intended change unless the approval sought under subregulation (1) is
granted.
      56. (1) An issuer of an initial coin offering may only commence         Commencement
advertising of an issuance or promotion following the date on which it        and duration of
                                                                              advertising.
receives notice from the Capital Markets Authority that it has no
objection to the proposed issuance or promotion.
      (2) The issuer of an initial coin offering may only advertise the
issuance or promotion for the duration specified in the application.
      (3) A person who fails to comply with the requirements of this
regulation is liable to the administrative sanction specified in regulation
142.
       57. (1) Where an issuer wishes to extend the issuance of an            Extension of
initial coin offering beyond the end date stated in its application, the      issuance.
applicant shall, in writing, submit to the Capital Markets Authority an
application for extension of issuance and reasons thereof.
     (2) An application for an extension under subregulation (1) shall
be submitted not later than three months before the expiry date of the
end date stated in its application.
     (3) The Capital Markets Authority may reject an extension
where—
      (a) prejudice would be caused or would ensue to the financial
          services industry or any part thereof;
      (b) the continued issuance is against public policy; or
      (c) the continued issuance is unlikely to meet the financial
          objectives stated in the original application.
   4286                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (4) Within ten days of making a determination under this
regulation, the Capital Markets Authority shall notify the applicant of
the decision thereof.
      (5) An extension may only occur for a period of no more than six
calendar months after approval under sub regulation (4).
       (6) Upon expiry of the extension under this regulation, any
subsequent issuance of the initial coin offering shall be deemed to
constitute a new offer to the public and the requirements for issuance of
initial coin offering shall apply.
      58. (1) Where a licensee seeks to change the promoter named in          Change of
its application, the licensee shall, in writing, notify to the Capital        promoter.
Markets Authority and provide reasons for the change.
      (2) A notification under subregulation (1) shall be submitted to
the Capital Markets Authority not less than fifteen working days before
the applicant proposes to effect the change.
       (3) The Capital Markets Authority may object to the change
where—
       (a) the promoter is not an eligible person under section 34(2) of
            the Act;
       (b) prejudice would be caused or would ensue to the financial
            services industry or any part thereof.
       (4) A change of a promoter shall be effected where the relevant
regulatory authority has no objection to the proposed change within a
period of fifteen working days following receipt of notice under
subregulation (1).
       (5) Where the Capital Markets Authority does not object to a
proposed change of promoter under this regulation, the applicant shall,
within five working days of the change taking effect, disclose the
change to all consumers and subscribers who have participated in the
initial coin offering as at the date of the change, specifying—
       (a) the identity and relevant background of the incoming
            promoter;
       (b) the reasons for the change;
       (c) information on any right of withdrawal available to the
            subscriber in consequence of the change, where applicable.
       (6) A person who fails to comply with the requirements of this
regulation is liable to the administrative sanction specified in regulation
142.
      59. The Capital Markets Authority shall maintain a register             Register.
with the following information —
      (a) the name and address of the issuer of initial coin offerings;
      (b) the date upon which the issuance is to start and to end;
      (c) any measures imposed by the relevant regulatory authority
          under the Act;
                               Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4287

      (d) whether the minimum total subscription disclosed in the
          approved white paper was achieved at the close of the
          offering;
      (e) the date on which the virtual assets offered were listed for
          trading on a licensed virtual asset exchange or token issuance
          platform;
      (f) any instance in which an approved initial coin offering did
          not proceed to listing, together with the reasons provided by
          the issuer or promoter.
      60. (1) A virtual asset exchange or a token issuance platform             Listing
provider shall maintain a list in respect of all virtual assets listed on the   requirements for
                                                                                virtual asset
exchange or platform.                                                           exchanges and
                                                                                token issuance
                                                                                platforms.
      (2) The virtual asset exchange or a token issuance platform
provider shall enter in the list the particulars of all virtual assets that
have been approved for listing.
       (3) A virtual asset exchange or a token issuance platform
provider shall only include a virtual asset in the list where the virtual
asset has attained the minimum total subscription disclosed in the white
paper approved by the Capital Markets Authority in respect of the
initial virtual asset offering and listing of the virtual asset.
      (4) The list shall, where applicable, include the following
particulars in respect of each listed virtual asset—
    (a)    the name of the virtual asset;
    (b)    the name of the issuer;
    (c)    the total supply of virtual assets listed;
    (d)    the listing date;
    (e)    the trading commencement date.
      (5) A virtual asset exchange or a token issuance platform
provider shall notify the Capital Markets Authority of each new listing
or delisting decision, on a monthly basis and by the tenth of the
following calendar month.
       (6) A virtual asset exchange shall not list any stablecoin unless
that stablecoin has been approved by the Central Bank of Kenya and is
issued by a duly licensed stablecoin issuer.
      (7) The Capital Markets Authority shall retain the power to direct
the delisting of a virtual asset where a material risk to financial stability
or consumer protection is identified.
 PART VII— PROVISIONS RELATING TO TOKENIZATION OF
                REAL-WORLD ASSETS
       61. (1) A person seeking to undertake the activity of virtual asset      Application for
tokenization shall make an application to the Capital Markets Authority         virtual asset
                                                                                tokenization
for a licence.                                                                  licence.
   4288                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (2) In addition to the requirements under regulation 6, an
application for a licence to undertake the activity of virtual asset
tokenization shall be accompanied by—
      (a) rules of ownership, transferability, compliance, and profit
          distribution where the tokenization is based on distributed
          ledger technology;
      (b) an independent audit of the systems to be used in the
          tokenization of the real-world asset;
      (c) the application fee set out in the First Schedule to these
          Regulations.
      (3) Within thirty days of receipt of all documents and information
required under subregulation (2) and completion of due diligence on
the applicant, the Capital Markets Authority shall determine the
application and notify the applicant of its decision thereof.
      62. (1) Subject to subregulation (3), a person seeking to             Requirements
undertake a virtual asset offering of a tokenized real-world asset shall    relating to
                                                                            issuance of
make an application to the Capital Markets Authority for approval.          tokenised real-
                                                                            world assets.
      (2) An application under subregulation (1) shall be accompanied
by—
      (a) a white paper with the information provided for under
          regulation 63;
      (b) governance structure of the issuer, including the board and
          senior management;
      (c) the policies and procedures for the monitoring the cycle of
          issuance and offering of tokenised real-world assets;
      (d) the information where the proceeds raised will be transferred
          or deposited;
      (e) a report by an independent valuer showing the real-world
          asset’s fair market value;
      (f) disclosure of the underlying technology;
      (g) evidence that the real-world asset can be tokenized and
          ownership can be established;
      (h) an agreement of the proposed custody arrangements,
          including the person holding the title and custody of the real-
          world asset;
      (i) a report by an independent valuer showing the real-world
          asset’s fair market value;
      (j) evidence that the real-world asset is clear of any
          encumbrances; and
      (k) the application fee specified in the First Schedule to these
          Regulations.
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4289

      (3) A real-world asset intended for tokenization under this
regulation shall—
     (a) have clear legal rights;
     (b) be independently verifiable with respect to its valuation,
existence and condition.
      63. (1) The white paper for a virtual asset offering of a               Contents of white
tokenised real-world asset shall provide full and accurate disclosure of      paper for offering
                                                                              of tokenized real-
information that will enable an investor to make an informed                  world asset.
assessment before subscribing or investing.
      (2) The information referred to under subregulation (1) shall
include—
      (a) brief description of the directors, senior management, key
           personnel and advisers of the issuer including their name,
           designation, nationality, address, professional qualifications,
           related experience and any involvement or participation in a
           previous similar offering;
      (b) the key information about the tokenized assets including
           their location;
      (c) a clear and accurate description of the rights or value that the
           token grants, or purports to grant, owners or holders of the
           token;
      (d) whether the token represents, or purports to represent, a
           direct right of ownership of the tokenized assets, or a
           fractional proportion thereof, and if so, a detailed description
           of how the right of ownership is established or such
           fractionalisation is structured;
      (e) if transactions in the tokenized assets are subject to legal or
           regulatory requirements;
      (f) a clear and detailed policy on the procedure for the creation
           and destruction of the tokens in public circulation and the
           consequence of such creation or destruction;
      (g) the custody arrangement of the tokenized assets including
           the custodians involved;
      (h) detailed assessments of risks relevant to the management,
           custody, investment or liquidation of the referenced real-
           world asset including credit risk, market risk, counterparty
           risk and liquidity risk;
      (i) details on the determination of the accounting and the
           valuation treatments for the offering, including all valuation
           methodology and reasonable assumptions adopted in such
           calculation;
      (j) associated challenges and risks, as well as mitigating
           measures thereof;
      (k) information in respect to the distribution of the token
          offering;
4290                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

  (l) policies on monitoring the cycle of the token offering;
  (m) details of how tokens will be traded or transferred;
  (n) any restrictions on the transferability of the tokens;
  (o) methods of payment to invest or subscribe;
  (p) details of refund mechanism or withdrawal rights;
  (q) experience and track record of third-party vendors or service
       providers;
  (r) information on the adequacy of systems and controls in place
       to safeguard the operation of tokenised assets against
       cybersecurity related risks;
  (s) the interoperability between the distributed ledger
       technology networks and systems of issuers and other
       parties;
  (t) the information where proceeds raised will be transferred or
       deposited;
  (u) mechanisms of creating the tokens on a distributed ledger
       technology representing fractional ownership of real-world
       assets;
  (v) the redemption mechanism upon asset disposal or insolvency
       of licensee;
  (w) the timeline for distribution of proceeds to token holders;
  (x) the target market of the virtual asset including any
       restrictions relating to the type of investors;
  (y) the timetable for the offer;
  (z) the minimum subscription level for the offer to be
       successful;
  (za) a disclosure as to the target market of the virtual asset
       including any restrictions as regards to the target investors;
  (zb) secondary market trading mechanisms put in place in
       relation to the tokenization;
  (zc) the audited financial statements of the issuer for three years
       or in the case of a newly incorporated issuer, the opening
       financial statements verified by an auditor as applicable;
  (zc) the name of any trading platform for virtual assets where
       admission to trading is or will be sought, and information
       about how investors can access such trading platforms and
       the costs involved;
  (zd) information on the technology used, including distributed
       ledger technology, protocols and technical standards,
       allowing for the holding, storing, and transfer of virtual
       assets;
  (ze) the issue price of the virtual asset being offered to the public,
       denominated in both Kenya shillings or any other virtual
       assets;
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4291

      64. (1) A person undertaking an offering of a tokenized real-           Modification of
world asset shall seek the approval of the Capital Markets Authority on       white paper for an
                                                                              offering of
any intended change of their business model likely to have a significant      tokenized real-
influence on the purchase decision of any holders or prospective              world asset.
holders of initial coin offering, which occurs after licensing or after the
approval of the virtual asset white paper.
       (2) The changes envisaged under subregulation (1) include any
material modifications to—
      (a) the governance arrangements, including reporting lines to the
            board of directors and risk management framework;
      (b) the rights granted to the holder’s virtual asset;
      (c) the functioning of issuers’ proprietary distributed ledger
            technology, where the virtual asset is issued, transferred and
            stored using such a distributed ledger technology;
      (d) the timetable for the offer;
      (e) the mechanisms to ensure the liquidity of virtual asset;
      (f) the arrangements with third-party entities, including for
            managing the reserve assets and the investment of the
            reserve, the custody of reserve assets, and, where applicable,
            the distribution of the virtual asset to the public;
      (g) the complaints-handling procedures.
       (3) A request for approval under subregulation (1) shall be
accompanied by a draft modified virtual asset white paper and ensure
that the order of the information appearing therein is consistent with
that of the original white paper.
      (4) An issuer of an offering of a tokenized real-world asset shall
not effect an intended change unless the approval sought under
subregulation (1) is granted.
      65. A person undertaking a virtual asset offering of a tokenized        Listing of
real-world asset shall—                                                       tokenized assets.

      (a) create the tokens on a distributed ledger technology platform,
          representing fractional ownership or rights to the real-world
          asset;
      (b) code the rules of ownership, transferability, compliance and
          profit distribution into distributed ledger technology platform
          based on smart contracts or equivalent mechanisms;
      (c) distribute the tokens through a primary offering;
      (d) list the tokens on a licensed token issuance platform to
          enable liquidity and investor exit options;
      (e) disclose issuance of additional tokens in respect of the real-
          world asset; and
      (f) disclose the introduction of smart contracts or equivalent
          mechanisms affecting tokenized real-world asset.
  4292                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

  PART VIII— PROVISIONS RELATING TO VIRTUAL ASSET
    WALLET PROVIDERS AND ISSUERS OF STABLECOIN
      66. (1) A licensee providing virtual asset wallet provider           Responsibilities
services shall—                                                            of a virtual asset
                                                                           wallet provider.
     (a) segregate holdings of virtual assets on behalf of their
         consumers from their own holdings or property, and from
         other non-consumer virtual assets;
     (b) ensure that on the relevant distributed ledger, their
         consumers’ virtual assets are held on separate addresses from
         those on which their own virtual assets or other non-
         consumer virtual assets are held;
     (c) with respect to any internal ledger accounts, maintain
         separate accounts for their consumers’ virtual assets and
         their own virtual assets or any other non-consumer virtual
         assets;
     (d) conduct, on a monthly basis, reconciliations of on-chain
         holdings against internal records and consume entitlements,
         and make such records available to the Central Bank of
         Kenya by the tenth day of the following calendar month;
     (e) obtain explicit consumer consent prior to holding virtual
         assets on behalf of such consumers in one or more omnibus
         accounts, or under any other arrangement where consumer
         assets are not held in separate accounts for each individual
         consumer under that consumer’s name;
     (f) maintain appropriate procedures to ensure that the virtual
         assets held in custody shall at all times be separate and
         insulated from the virtual asset service providers business;
     (g) not lend, use, hypothecate, pledge or otherwise use or
         encumber consumer assets that have been entrusted to it for
         safekeeping;
     (h) make its standard disclosures and standard consumer
         agreement readily accessible to consumers on its website and
         in a clear and non-technical language;
     (i) maintain in its custody, a sufficient amount of each type of
         virtual asset to meet its obligations to consumers;
     (j) ensure that necessary procedures are in place to return virtual
         assets held on behalf of their consumers or the means of
         access on demand to those consumers;
     (k) establish, maintain, enforce and regularly test reasonably
         designed written policies, procedures and arrangements in
         order to—
      (i) identify, in advance, the steps it intends to take in
          happening of events that could affect the custody of virtual
          assets;
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                 4293

       (ii) enable the virtual asset service provider to seize or freeze
            virtual assets, when required;
       (iii) enable the transfer of virtual assets held by the virtual asset
             service provider to another appropriate person;
       (iv) remedy mistaken, fraudulent or otherwise unauthorised
            transactions;
       (v) ensure the continued safekeeping and accessibility of
           virtual assets in the event of unexpected disruptions to the
           control over its consumers’ virtual assets, the rights related
           to those virtual assets or the means of access to the virtual
           assets;
      (l) maintain an up-to-date register of positions which records
          each consumer’s rights to the virtual assets in the control of
          the virtual asset service provider; and
      (m) provide their consumers, at least once every three months
          and at each request of the consumer concerned, with a
          statement of holdings of the virtual assets recorded in the
          name of those consumers.
       (2) The consumer agreement referred to in subregulation (1)(h)
shall include —
      (a) the general terms and conditions regarding custody of the
          consumer’s virtual assets;
      (b) how the virtual asset service provider segregates and
          accounts for the consumer’s virtual assets under
          subregulation (1)(a) to (1)(g);
      (c) the beneficial and equitable interests the consumer retains in
          their virtual assets;
      (d) the limitations on the use of custodied virtual assets by the
          virtual asset service provider.
      (3) For the purposes of subregulation (1)(l), the statement of
position shall state at the minimum the virtual assets concerned, their
balance, their value and the transfer of virtual assets made during the
period concerned.
      (4) Where a licensee providing virtual asset wallet provider
services holds virtual assets—
     (a) in one or more omnibus accounts; or
     (b) under any other arrangement where consumer assets are not
         held in separate accounts for each individual consumer under
         that consumer’s name,
      it shall maintain appropriate procedures and up-to-date records in
order to identify, at all times, the virtual assets belonging to each
consumer and to account for all consumer transactions.
   4294                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      67. (1) A person seeking to undertake a virtual asset offering of    Application for a
a stablecoin shall make an application to the Central Bank of Kenya for    stablecoin
                                                                           issuance licence.
licence.
      (2) In addition to the requirements under regulation 6, an
application for licence under subregulation (1) shall be accompanied by
—
     (a) the investment policies of the reserve assets and an
         assessment of how such investment policy can affect the
         value of reserve assets;
     (b) the issuer’s redemption policies;
     (c) a white paper containing the information specified under
         regulation 68;
      (3) Within thirty days of receipt of all documents and information
required under subregulation (2) and completion of due diligence on
the applicant, the Central Bank of Kenya shall determine the
application and notify the applicant of its decision thereof.
      68. (1) A white paper for a stablecoin shall contain the             Contents of a
following information—                                                     stablecoin white
                                                                           paper.
      (a) information about the issuer of the stablecoin;
      (b) information about the stablecoin;
      (c) information about the offer to the public of the stablecoin or
          its admission to trading;
      (d) information on the rights and obligations attached to the
          stablecoin;
      (e) information on the underlying technology;
      (f) information on the risks of the stablecoin;
      (g) information on the principal adverse impacts on the climate
          and other environment-related adverse impacts of the
          consensus mechanism used to issue the stablecoin;
      (h) the method and all factors used to calculate the value of
          reserve assets;
      (i) the initial value and composition of the reserve assets;
      (j) the conditions and the procedure to purchase stablecoins and
          redeem such stablecoins against reserve assets;
      (k) details of the stabilisation mechanism;
      (l) a summary of the investment policies referred to in
          regulation 67(2)(a) and an explanation of how such
          investment policy can affect the value of reserve assets;
      (m) details of the arrangements for custody and management of
          the reserve assets;
      (n) the rights provided to holders of the stablecoin; and
      (o) the date of its approval.
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                         4295

       (2) In addition to the information referred to in subregulation (1),
the white paper shall also contain the identity of the person other than
the issuer that offers the stablecoin to the public or seeks its admission
to trading, and the reason why that particular person offers that
stablecoin or seeks its admission to trading.
      (3) The white paper shall contain a clear warning that the issuer
of the stablecoin is solely responsible for the contents of the white
paper.
      (4) The white paper shall contain a summary, which shall in a
clear and non-technical language provide—
      (a) key information about the offer to the public of the
          stablecoin or the intended admission to trading of such
          stablecoin;
      (b) appropriate information about the characteristics of the
          virtual assets concerned in order to help prospective holders
          of the virtual assets to make an informed decision;
      (c) a warning that—
          (i) it should be read as an introduction to the white paper;
          (ii) the prospective holder should base any decision to
               purchase the stablecoin on the content of the white paper
               as a whole and not on the summary alone;
      (d) state that holders of the stablecoin have a right of redemption
          and at par value as well as the conditions for redemption;
      (e) clear and enforceable timelines for redemption, including—
          (i) standard settlement periods under normal market
              conditions;
          (ii) permissible extensions under stressed conditions, subject
               to prior approval by the Central Bank of Kenya;
      (f) ensure that redemption requests are processed in an orderly
          and timely manner, supported by adequate liquidity
          arrangements and operational capacity.
      (7) An issuers of stablecoins shall seek the approval of the
Central Bank of Kenya under this regulation, at least ninety days before
the date of their publication.
      (8) Any factor, mistake or inaccuracy that affects the assessment
of the stablecoin shall be described in the modified white paper and,
upon approval by the Central Bank of Kenya, be published on the
issuers’ website.
      69. (1) Upon approval by the Central Bank of Kenya under                Publication of the
regulation 67 or 68, a stablecoin issuer shall publish on its website the     virtual asset white
                                                                              paper for
approved white paper and, where applicable, the modified virtual asset        stablecoins.
white paper.
      (2) The issuer of a stablecoin shall—
   4296                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (a) publish the white paper from the starting date of the offer to
          the public of the stablecoin or the admission to trading of
          that stablecoin;
      (b) ensure that the approved white paper and modified white
          paper remain accessible for the duration that the relevant
          stablecoin is held by the public;
      (c) publish on its website—
          (i) any changes to the information referred to in the white
              paper;
          (ii) any event that has or is likely to have a significant
               impact on the value of the stablecoin or on the reserve
               assets.
      70. (1) A person shall not make an offer to the public or seek        Requirements for
the admission to trading of a stablecoin, unless that person—               the offer to the
                                                                            public or
                                                                            admission to
                                                                            trading of
                                                                            stablecoin.
      (a) is licensed in accordance with these Regulations;
      (b) is the issuer of such stablecoin;
      (c) has obtained approval from the Central Bank of Kenya to
          publish the white paper; and
      (d) has published that white paper in accordance with regulation
          69.
      (2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subregulation (1)
shall be liable to the administrative sanction specified in regulation
142.
      71. (1) A holder of a stablecoin shall have a claim against the       Issuance and
issuers of the stablecoin.                                                  redeemability of
                                                                            stablecoins
      (2) An issuer of stablecoin shall issue stablecoin at par value and
on the receipt of funds.
      (3) A holder of a stablecoin may, at any time, redeem their
stablecoin and the issuer of that stablecoin shall effect the redemption
request within two working days and at par value, by paying the
monetary value of the stablecoin held to the holder of the stablecoin.
      (4) An issuers of stablecoin shall prominently state the conditions
for redemption in the white paper.
      72. (1) An issuer of stablecoin shall not grant interest to holders   Prohibition of
of stablecoin.                                                              granting interest.

       (2) A licensee shall not grant interest when providing virtual
asset services related to stablecoin.
      (3) Any remuneration or other benefit related to the length of
time during which a holder of a stablecoin holds such stablecoin shall
be treated as interest associated to the stablecoin.
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4297

      73. (1) An issuer of stablecoin shall seek the approval of the        Modification of
Central Bank of Kenya on any intended change of their business model        published
                                                                            stablecoin white
likely to have a significant influence on the purchase decision of any      paper.
holders or prospective holders of stablecoins, which occurs after
licensing or after the approval of the white paper.
     (2) The changes envisaged under subregulation (1) include any
modification to—
      (a) the governance arrangements, including reporting lines to the
          management body and risk management framework;
      (b) the reserve assets and the custody of the reserve assets;
      (c) the rights granted to the holders stablecoin;
      (d) the through which a stablecoin is issued and redeemed;
      (e) the protocols for validating the transactions in stablecoin;
      (f) the functioning of issuers’ proprietary distributed ledger
          technology, where the stablecoin are issued, transferred and
          stored using such a distributed ledger technology;
      (g) the mechanisms to ensure the liquidity of stablecoin;
      (h) the arrangements with third-party entities, including for
          managing the reserve assets and the investment of the
          reserve, the custody of reserve assets, and, where applicable,
          the distribution of the stablecoin to the public;
      (i) the complaints-handling procedures.
      (3) A request for approval under subregulation (1) shall be made,
in writing, accompanied by a draft modified white paper and ensure
that the order of the information appearing therein is consistent with
that of the original white paper.
      (4) Where the Central Bank of Kenya approves the modified
white paper, it shall require the issuer of the stablecoin—
      (a) to establish mechanisms to ensure the protection of holders
          of the stablecoins, when a potential modification of the
          issuer’s operations can have a material effect on the value,
          stability, or risks of the stablecoin or the reserve assets;
      (b) to take any appropriate corrective measures to address
          concerns related to market integrity and financial stability.
      (5) An issuer of a stable coin shall not effect an intended changes
unless the approval sought under subregulation (1) is granted.
      74. (1) Where an issuer of a stablecoin has provided in its white     Liability of
paper or in a modified white paper, information that is misleading, that    issuers of
                                                                            stablecoin for the
issuer and its directors, senior officers, and external auditors shall be   information given
liable to a holder of such stablecoin for any loss incurred due to that     in a stablecoin
infringement.                                                               white paper.
   4298                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (2) Any contractual exclusion or limitation of civil liability as
referred to in subregulation (1) is not applicable.
       (3) For purposes of liability under subregulation (1), the holder of
the stablecoin shall adduce evidence indicating that the issuer was
responsible for provision of misleading information under
subregulation (1) that impacted on the holder’s decision to purchase,
sell or exchange that stablecoin.
      (4) The issuer and its senior officers, directors, significant
shareholders shall not be liable for loss suffered as a result of reliance
on the information provided in a summary, except where the
summary—
      (a) is misleading, inaccurate or inconsistent when read with the
          other parts of the white paper; or
      (b) does not provide, when read with the other parts of the white
          paper, key information in order to aid prospective holders
          when considering whether to purchase such stablecoin.
      75. (1) The issuer of a stablecoin shall—                               Stablecoin reserve
                                                                              assets.
      (a) fully back such stablecoin with reserve assets, such that the
          value of the reserve assets shall at all times be at least equal
          to the nominal value of all outstanding units of the
          stablecoin;
      (b) only issue stablecoin whose reserve assets consist of one or a
          combination of the following—
          (i) cash including Central Bank of Kenya reserve deposits
              and bank deposits;
          (ii) government securities with residual maturity of not more
               than ninety days;
          (iii) repurchase agreements with a maturity of not more than
                seven days backed by cash including central bank
                reserve deposits and bank deposits;
          (iv) other assets as may be approved by the Central Bank of
               Kenya;
      (c) ensure that reserve assets of each stablecoin are segregated
          from the operating assets of the issuer and the reserve assets
          of any other stablecoin;
      (d) make reserve assets available for examination and for
          verification of the issuer’s disclosures upon request by the
          Central Bank of Kenya.
      (e) ensure that the reserve assets are liquid to enable the issuer to
          fund redemption requests;
      (f) employ methods of calculating the valuation of reserve
          assets which are in accordance with generally accepted
          international standards on auditing or such standards as the
          Central Bank of Kenya may recognise;
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                         4299

      (g) maintain appropriate procedures to ensure that the reserve
          assets shall at all times be separate and insulated from
          issuer’s estate such that creditors of the issuer have no
          recourse on the reserve assets held in custody, in particular,
          in the event of insolvency;
      (h) conduct quarterly stress testing on its reserve assets and
          submit the results thereof to the Central Bank of Kenya by
          the tenth day of the calendar month following the end of the
          quarter;
      (i) ensure that the reserve assets is composed and managed in
          such a way that—
          (i) the risks associated to the assets referenced by the
              stablecoin are covered;
          (ii) the liquidity risks associated to the permanent rights of
               redemption of the holders are addressed;
      (j) ensure that the reserve of assets is legally segregated from
          the issuers’ estate, as well as from the reserve of assets of
          other stablecoin, in the interests of the holders of stablecoin,
          so that creditors of the issuers have no recourse to the reserve
          of assets, in the event of insolvency.
      (2) Stablecoin issuers that offer two or more stablecoin to the
public shall operate and maintain segregated pools of reserves of assets
for each stablecoin and each of those pools of reserves of assets shall
be managed separately.
      (3) A stablecoin issuer shall ensure that the issuance and
redemption of stablecoin is always matched by a corresponding
increase or decrease in the value of the reserve assets.
      76. (1) A stablecoin issuer shall establish, maintain and              Custody of
implement custody policies, procedures and contractual arrangements          reserve assets.
that ensure at all times that—
      (a) the reserve assets are not encumbered nor pledged as
          financial collateral;
      (b) the reserve assets are held in custody in accordance with
          these Regulations;
      (c) they have prompt access to the reserve assets to meet any
          requests for redemption from the holders of stablecoin;
      (d) risk of concentration of custodians and reserve assets is
          avoided.
     (2) The reserve assets shall be held in custody by a custodian
approved by the Central Bank of Kenya.
      (3) An issuer of stablecoin shall ensure that the reserve assets
held in custody are protected against claims of the custodians’
creditors.
   4300                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

     77. (1) A stablecoin issuer shall ensure that funds received in          Investment of
exchange for stablecoin complies with the following—                          funds received in
                                                                              exchange for
                                                                              stablecoin
      (a) at least thirty percent of the funds received is held in trust
          accounts in commercial banks in Kenya segregated for
          processing funds related to the issuance and redemption of
          stablecoin;
      (b) the remaining funds received are invested in Kenya in
          accordance with regulation 75; and
      (c) for fiat-referenced stablecoin, the reserve assets are
          denominated in the same official currency as the one
          referenced by the fiat-referenced stablecoin.
      (2) All profits or losses, including fluctuations in the value of the
financial instruments referred to in sub-regulation (1), and any
counterparty or operational risks that result from the investment of the
reserve of assets shall be borne by the stablecoin issuer.
     78. A stablecoin issuer shall, in a clear and non-technical              Ongoing
language and in a publicly and easily accessible place on their               information to
                                                                              holders of
website—                                                                      stablecoin.
      (a) disclose the amount of stablecoin in circulation, and the
          value and composition of the reserve assets;
      (b) publish a summary of the audit report in relation to the
          reserve assets;
      (c) subject to the approval of the Central Bank of Kenya,
          disclose any event that has or is likely to have a significant
          effect on the value of the stablecoin or on the reserve assets.
      79. (1) A stablecoin issuer shall implement and maintain                Identification,
effective policies and procedures to identify, prevent, manage and            prevention,
                                                                              management and
disclose conflict of interest between themselves and—                         disclosure of
                                                                              conflict of
                                                                              interest.
      (a) their shareholders or members;
      (b) any shareholder or member, whether direct or indirect, that
          has a significant shareholding in the issuers;
      (c) the members of their management body;
      (d) their employees;
      (e) the holders of stablecoin;
      (f) any third-party providing services to the stablecoin issuer.
      (2) A stablecoin issuers shall take all appropriate steps to
identify, prevent, manage and disclose conflicts of interest arising from
the management and investment of the reserve assets referred.
      (3) A stablecoin issuer shall, in a prominent place on their
website and in a clear and non-technical language, disclose to the
holders of their stablecoin the general nature and sources of conflict of
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4301

interest referred to in subregulation (1) and the steps taken to mitigate
them.
      (4) The disclosure referred to in subregulation (3) shall be precise
to enable the prospective holders of their stablecoin to make an
informed purchasing decision about the stablecoin.
      80. (1) The redemption of stablecoin shall be subject to the           Redemption of
stablecoin issuer’s terms and conditions as approved by the Central          stablecoins.
Bank of Kenya.
       (2) A stablecoin issuer shall establish a policy on consumers’
right of redemption setting out—
      (a) the conditions, including thresholds, periods and timeframes,
          for a holder of stablecoin to exercise such right of
          redemption;
      (b) the mechanisms and procedures to ensure the redemption of
          the stablecoin;
      (c) the valuation, or the principles of valuation, of the stablecoin
          and of the reserve assets when the right of redemption is
          exercised by the holder of stablecoin;
      (d) the conditions for settlement of the redemption;
      (e) measures that the stablecoin issuer takes to adequately
          manage increases or decreases in the reserve of assets in
          order to avoid any adverse impacts on the market of the
          reserve assets.
     (3) Where a stablecoin issuer, when selling a stablecoin, accepts
payment in the Kenya Shilling, they shall always provide an option to
redeem the stablecoin in the Kenya Shilling.
      (4) The redemption policies referred to in subregulation (2) shall
—
      (a) be clear and conspicuous;
      (b) confer on any holder of a stablecoin, a right to redeem units
          of the stablecoin from the issuer on demand at par value of
          the underlying unit of the currency;
      (c) clearly disclose the meaning, timing and conditions of
          redemption.
       (5) Upon request by a holder of a stablecoin, a stablecoin issuer
shall redeem the stablecoin by paying an amount in fiat, equivalent at
par value.
     (6) The redemption of stablecoins shall be subject to a fee
approved by the Central Bank of Kenya.
      (7) The business continuity plan of a stablecoin issuer shall
include measures by the stablecoin issuer to restore compliance with
the requirements applicable to the reserve of assets in cases where the
issuer fails to comply with those requirements.
   4302                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

       81. (1) Any marketing communication relating to an offer to the       Marketing and
public of a stablecoin, or to the admission to trading of such stablecoin,   communication of
                                                                             stablecoin
shall comply with the following requirements—                                issuance.
      (a) the marketing communication shall be clearly identifiable;
      (b) the information in the marketing communication shall be
           easily understandable and not misleading;
      (c) the information in the marketing communication shall be
           consistent with the information in the stablecoin white paper;
      (d) the marketing communication clearly state that a white paper
           has been published and clearly indicate the address of the
           website of the issuer of the stablecoin, a telephone number
           and an email address to contact the issuer.
      (2) In furtherance to the provision of subregulation (1), every
marketing communication, including any modifications thereto, shall—
      (a) be published on the issuer’s website;
      (b) contain a clear and unambiguous statement that the holders
           of the stablecoin have a right of redemption against the
           issuer at any time and at par value;
      (c) be notified to the Central Bank of Kenya, upon request;
      (d) not be disseminated prior to the publication of the white
           paper but shall not affect the ability of the issuer of the
           stablecoin to conduct market soundings.
      82. The issuer of a stablecoin shall appoint an approved auditor       Audits, review
to—                                                                          and reports.

      (a) conduct an annual review of its systems, process and
           procedures and other internal controls with respect to its
           compliance with the requirements of these Regulations;
      (b) on a quarterly basis, conduct an independent audit of the
           issuer’s reserve assets relating to its compliance with these
           Regulations and provide proof of the independent audit
           report of the reserve assets to the Central Bank of Kenya by
           the tenth day of the calendar month following the end of the
           quarter;
      (c) conduct, on an annual basis, a review of the issuer's
           redemption policies to determine whether the policies are
           being complied with and meet the requirements of these
           Regulations.
      83. (1) The Central Bank of Kenya may, in the interest of              Delisting or
financial stability or consumer protection—                                  halting of
                                                                             stablecoin
                                                                             issuance.
      (a) require an issuer of a stablecoin licensed under these
          Regulations to suspend or limit the issuance or redemption of
          such stablecoin;
      (b) require a licensed virtual asset exchange, wallet provider or
          other intermediary to restrict, suspend or delist the trading or
          availability of a stablecoin within Kenya.
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4303

      (2) Where a stablecoin is issued outside Kenya, the Central Bank
of Kenya may exercise its powers under this regulation by directing
licensed intermediaries operating in Kenya to restrict access to, or
trading of, such stablecoin.
      84. (1) An issuers of stablecoin shall, on a monthly basis and by      Stablecoin issuers
the tenth day of the following calendar month, report to the Central         reporting
                                                                             requirements.
Bank of Kenya, the following information—
      (a) the number of holders of stablecoin;
      (b) the value, circulation and peak values of the stablecoin;
      (c) the average number and average aggregate value of
          transactions per day during the relevant quarter;
      (d) the number of consumers and new account holders;
      (e) the composition of reserve assets in respect of the stablecoin;
          and
      (f) instances of de-pegging of the stablecoin.
      (2) In addition to the reports under subregulation
(1), a licensee shall, on daily basis, submit to the Central Bank of
Kenya reconciliation reports on the average number and average
aggregate value of transactions per day, the stablecoin issued and the
reserve assets.
    PART IX— CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS
      85. (1) A licensee shall, at all times, have capital and other         Minimum
financial requirements of such nature and amount that is commensurate        financial and
                                                                             capital
to the scale, risk and the complexity of the licensee based on its           requirements.
authorised activities.
      (2) In determining whether a licensee has adequate capital and
other financial requirements under sub regulation (1), the relevant
regulatory authority, where applicable, shall establish the ability of the
licensee to have—
      (a) and maintain the paid-up capital and liquid capital at the
          amount specified in the Fifth Schedule;
      (b) a proper accounting record           framework     established,
          documented and maintained;
      (c) adequate financial reporting mechanisms;
      (d) and maintain the required insurance coverage.
      (3) A licensee shall, at the time of licensing and at all times
thereafter, maintain core capital of not less than the paid-up capital
prescribed in the Fifth Schedule to these Regulations.
     (4) The issued share capital shall be regarded as paid-up only
where—
      (a) the consideration has been received in cash; or
      (b) the consideration has been received in other acceptable
   4304                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

           consideration approved by the relevant regulatory authority,
           which shall be capable of objective valuation and immediate
           realization.
       (5) The following shall not constitute paid-up capital for the
purposes of this regulation—
       (a) unpaid, partly paid or contingent capital commitments;
       (b) shareholder loans or advances;
       (c) capital raised through borrowed funds, whether directly or
           indirectly; or
       (d) revaluation reserves or internally generated intangible assets.
       (6) Where a licensee intends to or has been authorised to carry
out more than one permissible activity, the licensee shall hold the
amount of paid-up capital applicable to the highest-capital category and
fifty percent of the paid-up capital for each additional activity to be
undertaken.
       (7) The relevant regulatory authority may require a licensee to
increase the paid-up capital required under this regulation depending on
the risk profile of the virtual asset service provider.
       (8) The core capital maintained under these Regulations shall be
unencumbered and shall not be—
       (a) pledged, charged, or otherwise subjected to any form of
           security;
       (b) subject to any contractual or legal restriction that impairs its
           availability to absorb loss; or
       (c) repayable, redeemable or callable at the initiative of any
           shareholder or third party.
       (9) The relevant regulatory authority may require a licensee to
furnish evidence that its core capital is free from any encumbrance or
obligation.
       (10) A licensee shall ensure that its core capital does not fall
below the prescribed minimum at any time.
       (11) A licensee shall ensure that its shareholder funds does not
fall below the prescribed minimum paid-up capital at all times.
       (12) A licensee shall at all times ensure that it maintains adequate
liquid capital respectively set out in the Fifth Schedule.
       (13) Where the core capital of a licensee falls, or is likely to fall,
below the prescribed minimum, the licensee shall—
       (a) immediately notify the relevant regulatory authority, in
           writing; and
       (b) submit a remedial capital restoration plan for approval by the
           relevant regulatory authority.
       (14) Where a person contravenes the requirement of this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority may impose the
administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                         4305

       86. (1) A licensee shall not engage in any arrangement or             Misrepresentation
transaction the effect of which is to temporarily inflate or misrepresent    of capital position.
its capital position for purposes of meeting the requirements of this Act.
      (2) A person who contravenes the requirement of sub regulation
(1) commits an offence and shall be liable, upon conviction, to a
penalty specified in regulation 143.
      87. (1) A virtual asset manager shall maintain, at all times, risk-    Role of virtual
based capital to cover operational and technology-related risks.             asset manager in
                                                                             relation to capital
                                                                             position and use
                                                                             of funds.
       (2) A virtual asset manager managing consumer funds shall
appoint a custodian licenced in Kenya to safeguard the funds.
       (3) Where a virtual asset manager invests in or through a related
company, that investment shall not exceed ten percent of the value of
the total virtual assets under management, unless otherwise approved
by the relevant regulatory authority.
       (4) For purposes of this subregulation (3), a “related company”
means a holding company, subsidiary, or any entity under common
control or substantially of the same shareholders.
       88. (1) A licensee shall hold and maintain an insurance               Insurance
coverage for protection of consumers’ virtual assets, which shall be         coverage.
commensurate with the level of risks and the scale of the proposed
virtual asset service.
       (2) Where the licensee has demonstrated that it has exhausted all
means in obtaining the insurance coverage under sub regulation (1), the
licensee shall submit, for approval to the relevant regulatory authority,
a proposal in respect of an alternative means of insurance coverage to
address the level of risks and the scale of the proposed business.
       (3) All insurance policies shall be held and maintained with an
insurer licensed in Kenya or an insurer in a jurisdiction outside of
Kenya which has been approved by the relevant regulatory authority, in
consultation with the Insurance Regulatory Authority.
       (4) The insurance policies may be held in the name of another
entity within the licensee’s group provided that the relevant insurance
policy—
       (a) explicitly states that the licensee is an insured party; and
       (b) states the nature and the level of cover applicable to the
           licensee.
       (5) A licensee shall maintain appropriate insurance cover against
cybersecurity risks, theft, loss of keys, or operational failure.
       (6) A licensed virtual asset investment advisor shall hold and
maintain a professional indemnity cover of at least one million
shillings.
       89. (1) A licensee shall keep accurate accounting records which       Accounting
are able to show and explain its transactions, whether effected on its       records.
own behalf or on behalf of the consumers and that—
   4306                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (a) disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial
          position of the licensee at that time; and
      (b) enable the licensee to prepare a statement of comprehensive
          income and statement of the financial position as at any time
          and which comply with the requirements of these
          Regulations.
      (2) The accounting records shall, in particular, contain—
      (a) entries from day to day of all sums of monies and virtual
          assets, including initial coin offerings, received, exchanged,
          sold, transferred and held in custody;
      (b) details on administrative expenditures, receipts of
          commissions and charges imposed for transactions by the
          licensee;
      (c) a record of all assets and liabilities of the licensee including
          any commitments or contingent liabilities;
      (d) entries from day-to-day transactions of all virtual assets,
          including initial coin offerings, distinguishing those which
          are made by the licensee on its own account and those which
          are made by and on behalf of others;
      (e) entries from day-to-day of all consumers' monies, virtual
          assets, initial coin offerings which is paid into or out of a
          consumer's bank account or consumer's virtual asset, initial
          coin offerings and initial coin offerings account or any
          wallet;
      (f) record of balances on consumer's account.
       (3) The accounting records that a licensee is required to keep
shall conform to the requirements of international accounting standards.
       (4) A licensee shall preserve, in original digital form, the
accounting records that is required to be kept under this regulation for
at least seven years from the date of completion of the transactions or
operations to which they each relate.
       (5) The accounting records which are required to be kept under
this regulation shall, at any time during the period in which they are
required to be preserved, be produced for inspection to the relevant
regulatory authority, or any person authorised by the relevant
regulatory authority to receive the records, on demand at a reasonable
time and place as may be specified by the relevant regulatory authority
or the authorised person.
      90. (1) A licensee shall, with the approval of the relevant            Appointment of
regulatory authority, appoint an external auditor who shall be a member      an external
                                                                             auditor.
of good standing of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of
Kenya to carry out an audit of the transactions in its business.
     (2) The relevant regulatory authority may require an auditor
appointed under sub regulation (1) to—
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4307

      (a) submit to the relevant regulatory authority such information
          or report as the relevant regulatory authority may require in
          relation to the audit carried out by the auditor;
      (b) extend the scope of an audit of the business and affairs of the
          virtual asset service provider and to submit a report to the
          relevant regulatory authority; and
      (c) carry out any examination or establish any procedure in any
          particular case.
     (3) A person appointed as an auditor under this regulation shall
be appointed annually and may serve for a maximum period of four
consecutive financial years.
      (4) The relevant regulatory authority may decline to approve, or
revoke the appointment of an external auditor, if the external auditor
has contravened the provisions of the Act.
       91. Where the auditor's report is qualified on the grounds of the    Auditor’s report.
auditor's uncertainty as to the completeness or accuracy of the
accounting records under regulation 89, the auditor shall, as soon as is
practicable and in any event within seven days, report it in writing to
the relevant regulatory authority and the licensee.
      92. Every licensee shall submit to the relevant regulatory            Reports by the
authority—                                                                  licensee.

      (a) quarterly financial statements by the tenth day of the
          calendar month following the end of the quarter;
      (b) monthly capital adequacy or liquidity reports;
      (c) audited annual financial statements within three months after
          the end of the financial year;
      (d) promptly disclose any event that could materially affect
          solvency, valuation of virtual assets or consumer protection.
      93. Each virtual asset exchange or token issuance platform            Reports by virtual
provider shall submit to the Capital Markets Authority, by the tenth day    asset exchange
                                                                            and token
of the following calendar month, a report which shall include—              issuance platform
                                                                            provider.
      (a) a summary of all virtual assets listed, suspended, or delisted
          during the period;
      (b) daily trading reports, including transaction volumes and
          price movements;
      (c) quarterly reports of all transactions, including off-platform
          trades and transfers;
      (d) an annual audited financial statement prepared in accordance
          with applicable accounting standards.
     94. Every licensee undertaking virtual asset management shall          Reports by virtual
submit to the Capital Markets Authority—                                    asset managers.

      (a) quarterly reports of assets under management by virtual asset
   4308                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

          managers within fifteen days from the end of the quarter;
      (b) semi-annual financial statements of assets under
          management within fifteen days from the end of the
          reporting period;
      (c) annual audited financial statements of assets under
          management within three months from the end of the
          financial year.
      95. The financial year of every licensed person shall be the            Financial year.
period of twelve months ending on the 31st December in each year.
   PART X — CYBERSECURITY MEASURES, SYSTEMS AND
                     CONTROL
      96. (1) Pursuant to section 28(1) of the Act, a licensee shall          Cybersecurity
have in place cybersecurity measures for the establishment and                strategy.
maintenance of appropriate systems and controls for managing
cybersecurity and operational risks.
      (2) In giving effect to the provisions in subregulation (1), a
licensee shall—
      (a) have in place organisational, human and technological
          resources to prevent system and process failures or in the
          event of such a failure, to identify them and undertake the
          necessary steps for prompt rectification;
      (b) ensure that it has in place arrangements for the continuity of
          operations in the event that a significant process or system
          becomes unavailable or is destroyed; and
      (c) ensure adequate monitoring mechanisms are in place to
          quickly detect and prevent cyber incidents and periodically
          evaluate the effectiveness of systems and controls.
      (3) In furtherance to the requirements provided for under
subregulation (2), a licensee shall—
      (a) ensure that there is a chief information security officer or the
          equivalent with oversight over its cybersecurity systems with
          clearly defined roles, responsibilities and accountability for
          staff implementing, managing and overseeing the
          effectiveness of the licensee's cybersecurity strategy and
          policy;
      (b) ensure that the documentation of its internal processes and
          systems is maintained and distributed in managing
          operational and cybersecurity risk; and
      (c) ensure that all staff receive appropriate training in relation to
          cybersecurity on a periodic basis.
       (4) A licensee shall review its cybersecurity strategy and policy
regularly, and at least annually, in response to changes in cybersecurity
risks, as well as in response to a cybersecurity incident or to any issues
or weaknesses identified and specific to the licensee operation.
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                      4309

       (5) Further to subregulation (4), the licensee shall submit the
results of its review of the cybersecurity strategy and policy, and any
remedial actions needed, to its board of directors as soon as practicable
and, in any event, no later than one month after the date of the review.
      (6) Where a person contravenes the requirement of this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority may impose the
administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
     97. (1) A licensee shall ensure that its systems and controls are      Systems and
adequate and suitable for the performance of a virtual asset services and   control.
appropriate to the size and nature of its operations.
       (2) The systems and controls in subregulation (1) shall be in
relation to the—
      (a) transmission of information to purchasers and consumers
          using its distributed ledger technology platform;
      (b) assessment and management of risks;
      (c) safeguarding and administration of assets which belong to
          purchasers or its consumers; and
      (d) the fitness and propriety of its employees and the adequacy
          of the technology resources.
      (3) In maintaining appropriate systems and controls under
subregulation (1) and (2), a licensee shall have regard to—
      (a) confidentiality, including the safe storage of information and
          transmission of data in accordance with clear protocols,
          which may require firewalls within a system, as well as entry
          restrictions and compliance with relevant data protection
          laws;
      (b) accessibility of the system to authorized persons, employees
          of the licensee and as the case maybe, to authorized
          employees of the relevant regulatory authority;
      (c) integrity, including safeguarding the accuracy and
          completeness of information and data through its system and
          control;
      (d) maintenance of systems and infrastructure, including proper
          code version control, implementation of updates and
          resolution;
      (e) procedures to address updates to technological infrastructure,
          including forks.
      (4) The systems and control of a licensee shall include the
following audit functions —
      (a) vulnerability assessment, risk assessment and penetration
          testing of those systems conducted on a bi-annual basis
          during the first year of licensing and at least once a year for
          subsequent years;
   4310                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (b) audit trail systems that —
          (i) track and maintain information and data that allows for
              the complete and accurate reconstruction of all financial
              transactions and accounting;
          (ii) protect the integrity of data stored and maintained as a
               part of the audit trail from alteration or tampering;
          (iii) protect the integrity of hardware from alteration or
                tampering, including by limiting electronic and physical
                access permissions to hardware and maintaining logs of
                physical access to hardware that allows for event
                reconstruction;
          (iv) log system events, including access and alterations made
               to the audit trail systems and cybersecurity events;
          (v) maintain records produced as part of the audit trail;
          (vi) the effectiveness of the safe keeping, storage and
               accessibility of the virtual assets being kept by the
               licensee.
      (5) Subject to the approval of the relevant regulatory authority, a
licensee shall appoint a qualified independent party to audit its systems
and control, as and when may be required by the relevant regulatory
authority, and provide a written opinion to the relevant regulatory
authority that the licensee's program and controls are suitably designed
and operating effectively to meet the licensee's obligations under these
Regulations.
      (6) Further to subregulation (5), and in making an appointment, a
licensee shall consider and state in the resolution making the
appointment whether the independent party conducting the audit, as the
case may be—
      (a) holds the required qualifications and competence, has proven
          experience and adequate resources to perform the
          appointee’s functions; and
      (b) is independent of the licensee in that the appointee or, in the
          case of a firm, any of its partners has no relationship with, or
          interest in, the licensee, any of its group of companies, nor
          has any connection with any director or significant
          shareholder of the licensee that could reasonably be
          perceived as materially affecting the exercise by the
          appointee of an independent mind and judgement in the
          performance of the appointee's duties.
      (7) A licensee shall carry out regular reviews of its systems and
control.
       (8) A person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation
shall be liable to the administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
      98. (1) The relevant regulatory authority may at any time—              Cybersecurity
                                                                              audit.
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4311

      (a) commission an audit of a licensee; or
      (b) call for an investigation of the licensee.
      (2) The relevant regulatory authority may—
      (a) require an officer of the licensee to produce or furnish to the
          relevant regulatory authority officer making an examination,
          within a reasonable time—
          (i) such books of accounts and other documents in the
              custody or power of the licensee; or
          (ii) statements or information relating to the affairs of the
               licensee as may be required by the examining officer;
      (b) at any time, enter any premises where a licensee is carrying
          on virtual asset services, or any premises where the relevant
          regulatory authority reasonably suspects that any virtual
          asset services is carried out in contravention of these
          Regulations.
      99. (1) Where the licensee discovers a cybersecurity incident as       Reporting of
a result of a cybersecurity event, the licensee shall notify the relevant    cybersecurity
                                                                             incident.
regulatory authority within twenty-four hours of such discovery.
      (2) Further to subsection (1), the licensee shall provide a detailed
report within five working days on whether the cybersecurity incident
—
      (a) affects or has affected the services or network and
           information systems that support critical or important
           functions of the licensee;
      (b) affects or has affected services which the licensee has been
           authorized to provide;
      (c) constitutes or has constituted a malicious and unauthorized
access to the network and information systems of the licensee.
      (3) The report under subsection (2) shall include the remedial
actions to mitigate cybersecurity incident and prevent future
cybersecurity event.
      (4) A licensee shall report any material cybersecurity incident,
loss of keys, or unauthorised transaction within twenty-four hours and
shall maintain appropriate insurance cover against theft, loss of keys, or
operational failure.
      100. (1) A cybersecurity audit report shall be prepared by a fit       Cybersecurity
and proper person responsible for cyber security audit, containing—          audit report.

      (a) the functionality and integrity of the licensee's electronic
           systems;
      (b) any identified cybersecurity risk arising from any virtual
           asset service carried on or to be carried on, by the licensee;
           and
      (c) the cybersecurity program implemented and proposals for
          steps for the redress of any inadequacies identified.
   4312                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (2) Where a person contravenes the requirement of this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority may impose the
administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
      PART XI — SAFEKEEPING AND MANAGEMENT OF
                  CONSUMER’S ASSETS
      101. Where a distributed ledger technology platform provides for     Safeguarding of
the safeguarding and administration of assets belonging to consumers,      consumer’s assets
                                                                           strategy.
and pursuant to section 31 of the Act, a licensee shall ensure that—
      (a) satisfactory arrangements are made for that purpose; and
      (b) clear terms of agreement exist between the consumers and
          the licensee in relation to the virtual asset.
     102. (1) A licensee shall at all times provide safeguards to ensure   Consumer
consumer protection standards are upheld.                                  protection.

      (2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub regulation (1), a
licensee shall have business rules, procedures and an effective
surveillance programme that ensure that a virtual asset service
conducted on or through its distributed ledger technology platform or
trading systems is conducted in a manner that provides protection to
consumers, including monitoring conduct which may amount to market
abuse, financial crime, money laundering, terrorism financing or
proliferation financing.
      (3) In furtherance of the duty to protect the consumers assets
under sub regulation (1), a licensee shall—
      (a) establish policies, systems and controls for the safekeeping
          and management of consumer assets;
      (b) make adequate arrangements to safeguard consumers'
          ownership rights, mitigate the risk of loss or diminution on
          the value of consumers’ assets; and
      (c) establish and maintain adequate organizational arrangements
          for transfer of consumer assets.
      (4) A licensee shall, as part of its policies, procedures and
controls for the safekeeping and management of consumer assets,
including the reconciliation of consumer assets, specify how consumer
assets are protected against loss or misuse and how consumer assets are
segregated so that they are not subject to the claims of the licensee's
creditors as envisaged under section 31(d) of the Act.
      (5) A licensee shall make the policies referred to in sub
regulation (3)(a) available in summarized form to its consumers in
electronic format, upon request, no later than two working days from
the date of receipt of the request.
      (6) A person who contravenes the requirements of this regulation
(1) shall be liable to the administrative sanction specified under
regulation 142.
      103. (1) A licensee shall—                                           Consumer service
                                                                           agreement.
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                     4313

      (a) enter into a consumer service agreement with every
          consumer to which it renders services; and
      (b) submit to the relevant regulatory authority a copy of the
          standard consumer service agreement applicable to each
          service offered to the public.
       (2) A consumer service agreement under sub regulation (1)(a)
shall, at minimum include—
      (a) a detailed description of the virtual asset services offered;
      (b) the registration requirements for account opening;
      (c) the procedures for maintaining a consumer account;
      (d) the privacy policy of the licensee;
      (e) the consumer account use and access responsibility;
      (f) the suspension, termination and freezing of accounts;
      (g) the dispute resolution and the governing law;
      (h) the warranties and liability;
      (i) the indemnity;
      (j) the exclusions or limitations of the virtual asset service;
      (k) disclosure, data retention and data transfer;
      (l) force majeure; and
      (m) details on how dormant accounts and accounts of deceased
          persons shall be handled.
      104. (1) Pursuant to section 24(h) of the Act, a licensee shall       Management and
open and operate all client account and licensees own accounts in a         safe-keeping of
                                                                            consumer’s funds
bank licensed in Kenya.                                                     and assets.
      (2) A licensee shall ensure that the total amount and type of
consumer assets held for consumers matches the aggregate entitlement
of its consumers in accordance with its records and contractual
obligations.
      (3) Any transfer undertaken of consumer assets shall be
authorised or expressly permitted by the consumer.
      (4) A licensee shall, following the day on which consumers'
funds, other than consumer assets, are received, place those funds by
the end of the business day, with a bank or financial institution in
accordance with these Regulations.
      (5) A licensee shall take all necessary measures to ensure that
consumers’ funds, other than consumer assets, held in accordance with
sub regulation (4), are held in an account separate to that which is used
to hold funds belonging to the licensee.
      (6) Where a licensee holds virtual assets —
      (a) in one or more omnibus accounts; or;
   4314                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (b) under any other arrangement where consumer assets are not
          held in separate accounts for each individual consumer under
          that consumer’s name,
      the licensee shall maintain appropriate procedures and up-to-date
records in order to identify, at all times, the virtual assets belonging to
each consumer and to account for all consumer transactions.
      (7) A licensee shall have adequate arrangements in place to
safeguard the ownership rights of consumers over their consumer assets
and prevent the use of those assets for their own account.
      (8) A licensee shall not use consumer assets for its own account
or the account of any other person or consumer of the licensee.
      (9) A licensee shall take appropriate measures to prevent the
unauthorized use of consumer assets for its own account or the account
of any other person.
     (10) A licensee shall have procedures in place to ensure that
consumers have a means by which to access their consumer assets.
      (11) Where a person contravenes the requirement of this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority may impose the
administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
      105. (1) A licensee shall ensure that technology used for the           Systems and
purpose of holding consumer assets is reliable, resilient and compatible      controls to safe-
                                                                              keep consumer
with the consumer assets being held, where applicable.                        assets.
      (2) A licensee, in complying with subregulation (1) shall have
regard to—
      (a) the impact of the software architecture of the wallets used to
          hold consumer assets and the interoperability of systems
          used to hold them; and
      (b) the systems’ ability to ensure that security measures for
          access and use of private and public keys, hot and cold
          wallets storage, password protection and encryption, are
          reliable and effective.
      (3) Where a person contravenes the requirement of this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority may impose the
administrative sanction specified under regulation 142.
       106. (1) A licensee shall not grant any security interest, lien or     Protection from
right of set-off to another person over any consumer assets unless it         third party claims.
applies directly to the clearing or settlement of such obligations as
owed directly by the consumer to whom such security interest, lien or
right of set-off claim is against.
      (2) A licensee shall maintain records of any security interest, lien
or right of set-off which it applies under subregulation (1), including
any court order, legal proceeding or similar records served upon the
licensee, the amount and nature of the consumer assets and the date
upon which the obligation was applied.
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4315

      (3) Where a person contravenes the requirement of this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority may impose the
administrative sanction specified under regulation 142.
      107. (1) In fulfilling its obligations under this Part, a licensee     Records and
shall ensure that it maintains accurate and up to date records that are      accounts.
easily accessible by the consumer.
      (2) A licensee shall make accessible at its office a register and
enter in it the following information as appropriate to the relevant
consumer—
       (a) the name of the consumer;
       (b) the consumers’ rights to its assets;
       (c) any movement of consumer asset with reference to
            instructions received from the consumer.
       (3) A licensee shall use the register referred to in sub regulation
(2) to track, record transactions and ownership of consumer's assets and
reconcile the consumer assets on a consumer-by-consumer basis, and to
resolve any discrepancies taking into consideration any relevant off-
chain and on-chain records.
       (4) A virtual asset manager shall, on a monthly basis, provide to
each consumer a written statement containing the following
information—
       (a) the total value of virtual assets in a consumer’s account;
       (b) all transactions entered into between the licensee and the
            consumer in the reporting period; and
       (c) the change in quantity and valuation of virtual assets in a
            consumer’s account during the reporting period.
       (5) A licensee shall have in place valuation policies and
procedures to ensure timely and accurate valuation of virtual asset
holdings.
       (6) A virtual asset manager shall, on an annual basis, ensure that
all assets under management are subjected to an independent valuation
and the report of that valuation shall be submitted to the relevant
regulatory authority within three months of the end of the financial
year.
  PART XII — MARKET CONDUCT AND RELATED OFFENCES
       108. (1) A licensee shall, when conducting a permissible              Standards of
activity—                                                                    conduct.

      (a) observe a high standard of integrity and fair dealing;
      (b) act with due skill, care and diligence; and
      (c) observe high standards of market conduct.
       (2) A licensee shall provide to the relevant regulatory authority
details of how it promotes and maintains professional conduct as
required under sections 20 and 21 of the Act.
   4316                   Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

     (3) For purposes of subregulation (2), a licensee shall—
     (a) take all the necessary steps to promote and maintain high
         standards of integrity and fair dealing in the carrying on of a
         virtual asset service on or through its distributed ledger
         technology platform or trading systems; and
     (b) cooperate with the relevant regulatory authority with regard
         to regulatory matters.
     109. (1) A licensee shall not—                                         Consumers’
                                                                            understanding of
                                                                            risk.
     (a) recommend a transaction to a consumer, or effect a
         transaction with or for him, unless it has taken all reasonable
         steps to enable the consumer to understand the risks
         involved;
     (b) knowingly mislead a consumer on any advantages or
         disadvantages of a contemplated transaction;
     (c) promise a return on any investment.
      (2) A licensee shall give reliable information to the consumer to
ensure that the consumer’s decisions are informed.
     (3) A licensee shall, when making recommendations to a
consumer, take all reasonable steps to ensure that the consumer has a
proper understanding of—
     (a) the nature of the investment;
     (b) the fees and charges associated with the investment;
     (c) sthe risks of the investment;
     (d) risks related to AML/CFT/CPF;
     (e) the factors that are likely to affect the performance of the
         investment;
     (f) the terms and conditions of the investment;
     (g) the consequences of departing from the terms and conditions
         of the investment.
     (4) Where a licensee—
     (a) after giving a consumer an explanation, in writing, is
         satisfied that the consumer understands the information
         required to be given under subregulation (3), the licensee
         shall retain a copy of such explanation in its records;
     (b) gives an explanation orally, it shall send a written note of the
         advice to the consumer and retain a copy of the explanation
         in the consumer’s file;
     (c) is of the opinion that an explanation is not required, because
         of the consumer’s existing knowledge, it shall document that
         opinion in its records.
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4317

      (5) Where a person contravenes the requirement of this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority may impose the
administrative sanction specified under regulation 142.
      110. (1) A licensee shall establish and maintain procedures to        Addressing
address complaints by consumers of its virtual asset services.              complaints by
                                                                            consumers.
      (2) The procedures referred to in subregulation (1) shall
include—
      (a) effective arrangements for the investigation and resolution of
          complaints made against the licensee’s virtual asset services;
      (b) establishing and maintaining a register of complaints made
          against the licensee’s virtual asset services and resolutions
          reached with the consumer.
      (c) establishing and maintaining a consumer care system in
          accordance with regulation 111;
      (d) setting out the process for dealing with complaints,
          including–
          (i) the apportionment of responsibility for the actions that
              led to the complaint including to persons not specifically
              named in the complaint;
          (ii) the timeframe for dealing with a complaint;
          (iii) the timeframe within which to inform the complainant
                of progress in dealing with the complaint, which shall
                not be more than twenty-one days;
          (iv) the available remedial actions in respect of any
               complaints by the consumer;
          (v) the procedure for an appeal where the complaint cannot
              otherwise be resolved.
      (3) When addressing a complaint from a consumer, a licensee
shall —
      (a) disclose to a consumer its procedures for handling of
          complaints.
      (b) address a complaint from a consumer in a fair, appropriate
          and timely manner;
      (c) inform the consumer of the outcome of their complaint;
      (d) provide appropriate restitution and address the weaknesses in
          its internal systems that led to the action causing the
          complaint.
      (4) A licensee shall keep and maintain the records of the
complaints and action taken under this regulation for a minimum of
seven years.
      111. (1) Within six months after commencing the provision of          Consumer care
virtual asset services, a licensee shall establish a consumer care system   system.
   4318                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

within which its consumers can make inquiries and complaints
concerning its services.
      (2) Prior to establishing a consumer care system under sub
regulation (1), the licensee shall—
      (a) put in place a clear mechanism to address consumer
          complaints;
      (b) provide adequate means for consumers to file complaints;
      (c) address such complaints within a reasonable period from the
          time receipt of the complaint; and
      (d) provide, at all points of service, easily understood
          information about their complaint handling procedure.
       112. (1) A licensee shall have appropriate measures to identify,    Deterrence of
deter and prevent market abuse, financial crime and money laundering,      market abuse.
terrorism financing or proliferation financing on and through its
distributed ledger technology platform or systems and report to the
relevant regulatory authority any market abuse.
     (2) Pursuant to sub regulation (1), a licensee shall have rules and
procedures to prohibit or prevent any—
      (a) transaction intended to create a false appearance of a trading
          activity or transaction;
      (b) improper execution of virtual asset transfer or exchange,
          stablecoin issuance, token issuance, or initial coin offering;
      (c) transaction intended to assist or conceal any potentially
          identifiable market abuse or financial crime.
      113. (1) A licensee may enter into an agreement to outsource its     Outsourcing
operational functions of provision of virtual asset services.              agreements.

      (2) A licensee who intends to outsource its functions under
subregulation (1) shall obtain the approval of the relevant regulatory
authority at least thirty days before such outsourcing agreement is
implemented.
      (3) For the purposes of this regulation, a licensee shall not
outsource its operational function in such a way as to impair—
      (a) the quality of internal control of the licensee; and
      (b) the ability of the relevant regulatory authority to monitor
          compliance of the licensee with the Act and these
          Regulations.
      (4) Where a licensee outsources a material operational function
under this regulation, the licensee shall ensure that—
      (a) the outsourcing does not result in the delegation by senior
          officers of its responsibilities;
      (b) the relationship and obligations of the licensee to its
          consumers under this regulation is not altered;
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                          4319

      (c) the outsourcing contract provides that the relevant regulatory
          authority can exercise its oversight and supervisory powers
          under this regulation in respect of the third parties to who
          functions are outsourced; and
      (d) the requirements which the licensee is required to comply in
          order to be licensed and remain so, including any conditions
          imposed by the relevant regulatory authority are not
          undermined.
      (5) For the purpose of subregulation (3), an operational function
shall be regarded as material if a defect or failure in its performance
would impair—
      (a) the continuing compliance of the licensee with the
          requirements of its licence under these Regulations;
      (b) its financial performance; or
      (c) the soundness or the continuity of its virtual asset services.
                        Market conduct offences
      114. (1) A person who possesses inside information in relation to        Disclosure of
a virtual asset shall not use that information to acquire or dispose of        insider
                                                                               information.
that virtual asset, or attempt to do so, or encourage or cause another
person to deal in that virtual asset.
      (2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subregulation (1)
commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to the penalty
specified under regulation 143.
      (3) For purposes of this regulation “inside information” means
information, which has not been made public, but if made public,
would reasonably affect the price of a virtual asset, the investment
judgment of an individual in a transaction involving that virtual asset.
      115. (1) No person shall enter into or carry out, directly or            Market
indirectly, two or more transactions in virtual assets, which by               manipulation.
themselves or in conjunction with other transaction—
     (a) increase, or are likely to increase the price with the intention
         of inducing another person to purchase, or subscribe for, or
         to refrain from selling virtual assets issued by the same
         company or a related company, or such other listed virtual
         assets;
     (b) reduce, or are likely to reduce, the price with the intention of
         inducing another person to sell, or to refrain from
         purchasing, virtual assets issued by the same company or a
         related company, or such other listed virtual assets; or
     (c) stabilize, or are likely to stabilize, the price with the intention
         of inducing another person to sell, purchase, or subscribe for,
         or to refrain from selling, purchasing or subscribing for,
         virtual assets issued by the same company or by a related
         company, or such other listed virtual assets.
   4320                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subregulation (1)
commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to the penalty
specified under regulation 143.
      116. (1) A person shall not create or do anything which is             False trading and
intended or likely to create a false or misleading impression—               market rigging.

      (a) of active trading in virtual assets on a virtual asset exchange
          or token issuance platform; or
      (b) with respect to the market for, or the price for dealings in,
          virtual assets traded on the virtual assets exchange or token
          issuance platform.
      (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subregulation (1), a
false or misleading impression of active trading in virtual assets is
created if a person—
      (a) enters into or carries out, directly or indirectly, any
          transaction for the sale or purchase of a virtual asset which
          does not involve a change in the beneficial ownership of the
          virtual asset, or offers to do so; or
      (b) offers to sell a virtual asset at a price which is substantially
          the same as the price at which he has made or proposes to
          make, or knows that an associate of his has made or proposes
          to make an offer to buy the same or substantially the same
          number of virtual assets.
      (3) A person who contravenes the provisions of sub regulation
(1) commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to the penalty
specified under regulation 143.
      117. (1) A person shall not induce or attempts to induce another       Fraudulently
person to subscribe for, sell or purchase virtual assets by—                 inducing trading
                                                                             in virtual assets.
      (a) making or publishing any statement, promise or forecast that
          is false, misleading or deceptive;
      (b) concealing any material facts;
      (c) making or publishing any statement, promise or forecast
          which is misleading, false or deceptive; or
      (d) recording or storing in, or by means of, any mechanical,
          electrical or other device, information that is false or
          misleading.
      (2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subregulation (1)
commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to the penalty
specified under regulation 143.
      118. (1) A person shall not, directly or indirectly, in connection     Use of
with any transaction involving the subscription, purchase or sale of         manipulative
                                                                             devices.
virtual assets—
      (a) use any device, scheme or artifice to defraud the other
          person;
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4321

      (b) engage in any act, practice or course of business which is
          fraudulent, deceptive or likely to defraud or deceive that
          other person
      (c) make any false statement in relation to a matter or omits to
          state a material fact that is necessary in order to make the
          statements made in the light of the circumstances under
          which they were made, not misleading.
      (2) A person who contravenes the provisions of sub regulation
(1) commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to the penalty
specified in regulation 143.
      119. No person shall, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of       False or
inducing the subscription for, sale or purchase of virtual assets by         misleading
                                                                             statements
another person of any company, or of any other virtual assets, or to         inducing virtual
maintain, increase, reduce or stabilize the price of such virtual assets,    assets
make with respect to the virtual assets—                                     transactions.

      (a) any statement which is, at the time and in light of the
          circumstances in which it is made, false or misleading with
          respect to any material fact and which that person knows or
          reasonably ought to know is false or misleading; or
      (b) any statement which is, by reason of the omission of a
          material fact, rendered false or misleading and which that
          person knows or ought to know is rendered false or
          misleading by reason of omission of that fact.
      (2) A person who contravenes the provisions of sub regulation
(1) commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to the penalty
specified in regulation 143.
      120. (1) No person who has insider information on consumer             Front-running.
orders with a price differential, or is aware of such orders, shall effect
an own account transaction in the virtual assets concerned or in any
related investments directly or through any person, to take advantage of
the price differential before the consumer order is executed.
      (2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subregulation (1)
commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to the penalty
specified in regulation 143.
      121. A licensee shall not –                                            Churning.

      (a) deal or arrange a deal in the exercise of discretion for any
          consumer; or
      (b) advise a consumer to deal,
       if the dealing could in the circumstances be reasonably
considered as too frequent or too large having regard to the trading
activities, investment objectives, size and operations of such consumer.
      (2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subregulation (1)
commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to the penalty
specified under regulation 143.
   4322                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      122. (1) A licensee shall not, for the purposes of soliciting           Cold Calling.
business relating to a regulated activity, make unsolicited telephone
calls or attend at any property, unless it has established and monitors
the implementation of operational procedures to—
      (a) maintain a Do-Not-Call list of prospects that is updated
          whenever any contacted person requests not to be called
          again;
      (b) train staff on the use of the Do-Not-Call list;
      (c) limit the making calls to between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m;
      (d) oblige the callers to state their first and last names at the
          commencement of the call;
      (e) oblige the callers to state the firm’s name and address and
          the fact that it is licensed by the relevant regulatory authority
          at the commencement of the call;
      (f) oblige the caller to provide a detailed offer view of any
          product being marketed by the licensee prior to soliciting any
          offer;
      (g) record and avail copies of all recordings to the relevant
          regulatory authority for inspection.
      (2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subregulation (1)
commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to the penalty
specified under regulation 143.
   PART XIII — ADVERTISEMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
                   VIRTUAL ASSETS
        123. (1) A person shall not—                                          Prohibition.

        (a) advertise or purport to advertise a virtual asset service; or
        (b) promote or purport to promote a virtual asset service,
            including initial coin offerings and non-fungible tokens,
        unless that person complies with the requirements of these
Regulations.
        (2) Any person acting on behalf of a licensee shall comply with
these Regulations, and the licensee shall be liable and responsible for
such persons as if the licensee had undertaken the relevant advertising
itself.
        (3) This Part shall not apply to the following persons and
activities —
        (a) advertisement by ministry, department, authorities or
            agencies of the Government;
        (b) persons engaged in the business of printing commercial and
            promotional materials for licensees; and
        (c) persons responsible for securing the placement of an
            advertisement provided they are not responsible for the
            contents thereof.
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                         4323

       (4) A person who contravenes the requirement of this regulation
shall be liable to the administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
      124. (1) Advertisements shall—                                           General
                                                                               requirements for
                                                                               advertisement.
      (a) be fair, clear, complete, concise, unambiguous and unbiased,
          and shall not be false, misleading nor deceptive;
      (b) contain information that is timely and consistent with any
          relevant virtual assets, including initial coin offerings or
          virtual asset services;
      (c) convey an equitable message in respect of the returns,
          benefits and risks associated with the relevant virtual asset,
          including initial coin offerings or virtual asset services;
      (d) be clearly identifiable and the media chosen for an
          advertisement shall be suitable for that advertisement with
          due consideration as to the target market or class of
          consumers;
      (e) not lure or induce consumers into malicious virtual asset
          services and offerings;
      (f) not facilitate illicit actors or high-risk virtual asset service
          providers in the offering of virtual assets, including initial
          coin offerings or virtual asset services;
      (g) be in plain language as to be capable of being clearly
          understood by prospective consumers or consumers that
          might reasonably be expected to see it; and
      (h) not state or imply that relevant virtual assets, including initial
          coin offerings and non-fungible tokens, or virtual asset
          services are suitable for a particular class of consumers or
          consumers unless designated as being a product advertisable
          to a particular class of individuals or persons.
      (2) Before selling any relevant virtual asset, including initial coin
offerings or virtual asset services, a licensee shall ensure that
consumers have received sufficient information, regarding such
products or services, including the benefits and potential risks, so as to
allow a consumer to make an informed decision.
      (3) Advertisements relating to the virtual asset services rendered
by a licensee shall include such relevant information as to the type of
service offered, including the terms and timeframes for consumer
deposits and withdrawals, associated fees payable, a reference to where
consumers can access full terms, conditions, fees, and timeframes for
deposits and withdrawals and such other relevant terms under which
the service is provided to consumers.
      (4) Where a person acts in contravention of this regulation, the
relevant regulatory authority may impose the administrative sanction
specified under regulation 142.
   4324                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      125. (1) A licensee or promoter shall avoid extensive use of         Content of
technical, legal terminology or complex language in an advertisement       advertisement.
which may not convey a clear message to the consumers or may be
such as to cause confusion if the likely audience is unfamiliar with the
concepts.
      (2) All advertisements shall—
      (a) include the details of the licensee or promoter, including its
          full name and tradename (if applicable), licence number and
          registered office;
      (b) include the details of the third party, where a known third
          party is issuing or causes the advertisement to be issued on
          behalf of the licensee or promoter of the virtual asset;
      (c) be accurate and up-to-date;
      (d) not omit any material relevant facts, and shall not make
          definitive statements that cannot be sustained;
      (e) use a design and presentation that shall be easily and clearly
          understood;
      (f) include, if relevant, any approved trademark, tradename,
          slogan or associated marker to the licensee or promoter;
      (g) always give a fair, balanced and clear indication of any
          relevant risks when referencing potential benefits;
      (h) include the contact details where consumers can make
          enquiries;
      (i) ensure that changes to original information about the virtual
          asset or virtual asset service are promptly notified and
          described, with the advertisement indicating the date the
          information contained therein was updated.
      (3) Where information is sourced externally, the licensee or
promoter shall disclose it as being such, and shall ensure that the
information is accurate, complete and up-to-date and include the
original source.
      (4) An advertisement shall only make a comparison, reference to
past performance or future performance where this can be provided
clearly, accurate, fair, balanced and not misleading, and does not take
unfair advantage of the recipient of the communication.
       (5) Any reference to the involvement of the relevant regulatory
authority in the advertisement shall not be construed or imply that the
relevant regulatory authority has approved the advertisement or taken
the responsibility for the soundness of the virtual asset, including an
initial coin offerings or virtual asset service, and shall be limited to
reference as to licensing.
      (6) A licensee shall not make reference to the name of any
regulator, including the relevant regulatory authority or government in
a way that is misleading and shall not use the name of any regulator,
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4325

including the relevant regulatory authority, without seeking prior
approval with the concerned regulator or the relevant regulatory
authority.
      (7) Where a person contravenes the requirement of this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority may impose the
administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
      126. (1) An advertisement shall —                                      Performance
                                                                             information.
      (a) not contain any projection of performance returns based on
          borrowing plans where it cannot be evidenced and
          substantiated;
      (b) when referring to a comparison, ensure that—
          (i) the comparison is meaningful and presented in a fair and
                balanced way;
          (ii) the sources of the information used for the comparison
                are specified; and
          (iii) the key facts and assumptions used to make the
                comparison are included, with clear provision as to its
                being an assumption and not a guarantee;
      (c) when referring to past performance—
          (i) contain a clear and prominent statement that past
                performance is not an indicator of future performance;
          (ii) clearly state the reference period and the source of the
                information provided; and
          (iii) is based on objective, up-to-date and accurate
                information.
      (2) An advertisement that refer to future performance shall ensure
that —
      (a) the information gives a balanced impression, covering both
          negative and positive scenarios;
      (b) it is clear as to the basis on which future performance is
          predicted; and
      (c) there is a clear and prominent statement that such forecasts
          are not a reliable indicator of future performance.
      (3) An advertisement shall not contain information on future
performance if it is not able to obtain objective data to substantiate the
advertisement.
      (4) Future performance shall not be based on nor refer to
simulated past performance.
      (5) An advertisement shall advise that a consumer should
undertake their own research and not rely solely on the information
provided within the advertisement or other materials prepared.
      (6) Where a person contravenes the requirement of this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority may impose the
administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
   4326                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      127. Where a fee or cost is referred to in an advertisement, it        Fees, costs and
shall give a realistic impression of the overall level of fees and costs a   commissions.
consumer is likely to pay with clear indication as to the fee or cost
being an estimate, if applicable.
      128. (1) An advertisement shall adequately display and explain         Risks and warning
any risks associated with relevant virtual asset, including initial coin     disclosures.
offerings or virtual asset service.
      (2) Where the price of a relevant virtual asset, including initial
coin offerings and non-fungible tokens, or virtual asset service, is
denominated in a currency other than Kenya shillings, the consumer
shall be warned that changes to the rates of exchange may have an
effect on the value, price or income obtained from relevant
advertisement.
      (3) Where a person contravenes the requirement of this
regulation, the relevant regulatory authority may impose the
administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
     129. (1) Any person making an advertisement shall, at all               Duty of a person
times—                                                                       making
                                                                             advertisement.
      (a) act responsibly, with honesty, fairness, integrity and
          professionalism;
      (b) avoid aggressive or offensive sale practices;
      (c) avoid indecent images or phrases;
      (d) deal respectfully with the consumers and ensure sufficient
          disclosure is made for them to make informed decisions;
      (e) be transparent regarding the nature of his, her or its
          relationship with the licensee or promoter;
      (f) avoid any inaccurate, false, misleading or deceptive
          information;
      (g) preserve confidentiality of the consumer's information, and
          not take advantage of such information for personal or
          another person's gain in conformity with the data protection
          law.
      (2) A person who acts in contravention with this regulation shall
be liable to the administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
     130. (1) Any person acting on behalf of a licensee or promoter,         Duties of third
where appropriate, shall—                                                    parties making
                                                                             advertisements.
      (a) always disclose his full and accurate identity, at the time of
          introduction with consumers;
      (b) always disclose to consumers before entering into any
          contract for relevant virtual asset, including initial coin
          offering and non-fungible tokens, or virtual asset service, all
          benefits that will be paid to him or her, whether by way of
          fees, commissions, dividends (directly or indirectly) or
          otherwise under such contract, based on his relationship and
                          Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4327

          interest that he or she may share with other parties which are
          associated with the relevant products or services;
     (c) always disclose if they are being paid to promote or feature
         such a promotion on personal, business or other web pages
         controlled by the person itself.
      (2) A person who acts in contravention with this regulation shall
be liable to the administrative sanction specified in regulation 142.
      131. An advertisement on the internet shall adhere to the             Internet
following principles and standards —                                        advertisement.

     (a) electronic advertisements shall be identical to the most up-
         to-date paper versions;
     (b) there shall be a prominent statement on the relevant web
         pages, which is capable of being seen and read with
         reasonable ease by the consumer accessing the electronic
         copies of such advertisements, to the effect that printed
         copies of the advertisements are also available, as well as
         where and how they can be obtained;
     (c) any advertisements on the relevant web pages shall remain
         available for as long as it is necessary for the consumers to
         have a reasonable opportunity to read or access them, or for
         such duration of validity period as may be relevant from time
         to time;
     (d) consumers shall be given the opportunity to retain the
         information through printing and downloading; and
     (e) downloadable advertisements shall contain the date by print
         or watermark or through a time stamp in the downloadable
         version of the triggered date that the download has occurred.
      132. A licensee or promoter shall, inter alia, abstain from the       Prohibited internet
following internet-based advertisement practices when making an             advertising and
                                                                            marketing
advertisement over the internet—                                            practices.
     (a) hiding essential information by the close proximity of
         promotional images or additional text;
     (b) reducing risk warnings in importance due to their location
         outside of the main advertisement border;
     (c) diminishing some statements through the use of small font
         sizes, hard-to-read coloring, being placed at non prominent
         positioning and unclear type styles so as to render difficult or
         ineligible to read;
     (d) hiding important information within, or in some cases absent
         from, the respective internet landing page and only accessed
         through significant scrolling down or multiple page links;
     (e) due to positioning, making risk warnings easy to overlook,
         resulting in consumers being taken directly to an application
         form by clicking onto a banner advertisement;
   4328                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (f) publishing risk statements within a “pop-up” box that only
           appears on the consumer's initial visit to the relevant website;
      (g) providing minimal information on the risks associated to
           specific products being promoted;
      (h) obscuring key information or warnings, such as fees or
           exclusions, within the internet website or placed under a
           separate section or heading;
      (i) incentives such as bonuses and inducements published on the
           main web page, but which are subject to conditions within
           pages noted in paragraph (h), that are not explained at the
           outset of account opening, transfer of funds or virtual asset;
      (j) not taking into account the different-sized browsers of
           consumers when positioning risk information whereby it is
           necessary to scroll down to access the information; and
      (k) superimposing important information, statements or
           warnings across colored or patterned backgrounds which
           lessen their visual impact.
      133. A licensee or promoter shall maintain adequate records of          Record keeping.
its advertisements, including details of who signed off each
advertisement and when it was signed off, for at least seven years after
the advertisement ceases to be available to consumers.
         PART XIV— FREEZING AND SEIZURE ORDERS
       134. (1) A freezing order or seizure order under these                 Freezing and
Regulations shall be obtained in accordance with the procedures and           seizure of virtual
                                                                              assets.
evidentiary requirements set out under the Proceeds of Crime and Anti-
Money Laundering Act, the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act
or any other relevant law relating to the identification, tracing, seizure,
or forfeiture of proceeds of crime.
       (2) The powers of investigation, preservation, seizure, production
of records, compensation and forfeiture applicable under the Proceeds
of Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act, the Anti-Corruption and
Economic Crimes Act or any other relevant law shall, apply to virtual
assets and virtual asset service providers.
       (3) Nothing in these Regulations shall be construed as limiting
the competent authority to seek orders under the Proceeds of Crime and
Anti-Money Laundering Act, the Anti-Corruption and Economic
Crimes Act or any other relevant law for the recovery of virtual assets
that constitute proceeds of crime or unexplained assets.
       135. (1) Every licensee shall comply with any freezing order and       General
seizure orders.                                                               obligations of
                                                                              licensee relating
                                                                              to freezing and
                                                                              seizure orders
      (2) The compliance envisaged under sub regulation (1) shall
include—
      (a) responding promptly to lawful requests for information,
          documents, records, or other materials relevant to any
          investigation or proceedings;
                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4329

(b) providing access to virtual asset transaction records,
    consumer identification data, beneficial ownership
    information, and any other data maintained pursuant to these
    Regulations;
(c) producing documents, records, or information as specified in
    the freezing or seizure order;
(d) maintaining systems and procedures to enable timely and
    effective responses to competent authority’s requests;
(e) cooperating in the execution of court orders, warrants,
    directives, or other lawful instruments issued by competent
    authorities.
136. (1) A licensee served with a freezing order shall—               Freezing orders:
                                                                      obligations to
                                                                      licensee.
(a) immediately freeze the specified virtual assets;
(b) prevent withdrawal, transfer or conversion related to the
    frozen assets;
(c) preserve all records relating to the frozen assets, including
    consumer information, transaction logs, wallet addresses,
    keys and any other relevant data;
(d) ensure that any internal or third-party custodian, sub-
    custodian, exchange partner or distributed ledger technology-
    infrastructure provider engaged by the licensee also complies
    with the order to the extent that they maintain control over
    the assets;
(e) comply with competent authorities and provide all
    documents, records, data, or technical information required
    in the freezing order, including—
    (i) addresses or accounts;
    (ii) consumer identification records;
    (iii) transaction histories, logs, consumer records and meta-
          data;
    (iv) wallet identifiers, addresses, and associated credentials;
         and
    (v) transaction histories.
137. A licensee served with a seizure order shall—                    Seizure orders:
                                                                      Obligations of
                                                                      licensee.
(a) immediately surrender control of the specified virtual assets
    to the competent authority;
(b) provide full access to relevant wallets, addresses or accounts,
    digital records or as may be specified in the order;
(c) transfer the virtual assets to a designated, secure digital
    wallet controlled by the competent authority;
   4330                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (d) provide transaction histories, logs, consumer records and
          technical information necessary for enforcement of the order;
      (e) grant an authorised officer access to any premises where the
          virtual asset devices are suspected to be and the authorised
          officer may seize and detain any physical device, hardware
          wallet, seed phrase backup or electronic system necessary to
          access the virtual assets.
      138. (1) An authorised officer shall take all reasonable measures     Preservation of
to maintain the value and integrity of seized virtual assets.               value.

      (2) The authorised officer may, upon approval of the competent
court, convert virtual assets into fiat currency to preserve value.
      139. (1) All seized virtual assets shall be transferred to a secure   Custody and
wallet controlled by the relevant government agency.                        management of
                                                                            seized virtual
                                                                            assets.
      (2) The competent authority shall—
      (a) maintain a detailed chain-of-custody record, including
          transaction hashes and transfers executed pursuant to the
          seizure order; and
      (b) monitor the value of the seized virtual assets.
      140. A freezing or seizure order issued under this Part shall—        Protection of
                                                                            uninvolved
                                                                            consumers.
      (a) target specific consumer accounts or specific virtual assets
          held in custody by the licensee;
      (b) make provision for the licensee to seek clarification or
          variation of the order where compliance would affect assets
          of uninvolved consumers.
      141. A licensee that fails to comply with a freezing or seizure       Offence of failure
order commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to the         to comply.
penalty provided under regulation 143.
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                       4331

     PART XV— ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS AND GENERAL
                    PROVISIONS
      142. (1) A person who contravenes the provisions of these             Administrative
                                                                            sanctions.
Regulations as envisaged in regulation 14(6), 21(5), 54(5), 56(3), 58(6),
70(2), 85(14), 96(6), 97(8), 100(2), 102(6), 104(11), 105(3), 106(3),
109(5), 123(4), 124(4), 125(7), 126(6), 128(3), 129(2) or 130(2) is
liable—
      (a) in the case of an individual, to an administrative fine not
          exceeding three million shillings; or
      (b) in the case of a company, to an administrative fine not
          exceeding five million shillings.
     (2) In addition to the penalties provided under subregulation (1),
the relevant regulatory authority may take any of the following
administrative enforcement actions—
      (a) suspend or revoke a licence, approval or authorisation issued
          in accordance with these Regulations; or
      (b) issue a direction to the person to take remedial action or
          make specific arrangements to remedy the contravention.
      143. A person who commits an offence under these Regulations          Criminal
                                                                            sanctions.
as envisaged in regulation 12(2), 86(2), 114(2), 115(2), 116(3), 117(2),
118(2), 119(2), 120(2), 121(2), 122(2) or 141 is liable, upon
conviction—
      (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding five
          million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
          five years, or to both; or
      (b) in the case of a company, to a fine not exceeding eight
          million shillings.
       144. The financial penalties set out under in these Regulations      Recovery of
                                                                            penalties.
shall be recoverable summarily by the relevant regulatory authorities as
civil debt.
      145. (1) In furtherance of section 6(1)(g) of the Act, there is       Establishment of
                                                                            the
established a forum to be known as the Virtual Assets Services              Coordination
Coordination Forum, hereinafter referred to as the “Coordination            Forum.
Forum”.
     (2) The Coordination Forum shall consist of representatives
nominated from the agencies specified in the Sixth Schedule.
      146. The Coordination Forum shall act as forum for—                   Mandate of the
                                                                            Forum.
   4332                    Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

      (a) consultation and co-operation on matters related to virtual
          asset services;
      (b) considering any issues raised by the relevant regulatory
          authorities on matters affecting the implementation of the
          Act and these Regulations;
      (c) timely sharing and exchange of risk-based information;
      (d) harmonizing approaches and resolving cross-sectoral issues
          affecting the provision of virtual asset services;
      (e) supporting relevant regulatory authorities in undertaking risk
          assessments, where appropriate.
      147. (1) The Coordination Forum shall meet at least once every        Conduct of
                                                                            business of the
quarter and may hold special meetings as required.                          Coordination
                                                                            Forum.
      (2) The Coordination Forum may establish such sub-committees
as it may consider necessary to assist in the performance of its
functions.
      (3) The Coordination Forum shall determine its own procedures.
     (4) The Coordination Forum shall prepare and submit to the
Cabinet Secretary at least once in every year reports of its activities.
      (5) All members of the Coordination Forum shall comply with
confidentiality obligations under section 42 of the Act when sharing
information through the Coordination Forum.
      (6) The Coordination Forum shall be supported by a Secretariat
consisting of persons nominated by the relevant regulatory authorities.
     148. The relevant regulatory authorities may jointly undertake         Joint supervisory
                                                                            and licensing
supervisory and licensing activities under the Act and these                activities.
Regulations.
        149. (1)     Subject to the Insolvency Act, a licensee may, with    Voluntary
                                                                            liquidation.
the approval of the relevant regulatory authority, voluntarily liquidate
itself if it is unable to meet all its liabilities.
      (2) An application for approval for the purposes of subregulation
(1) shall be made in writing to relevant regulatory authority.
       (3) The relevant regulatory authority may, upon receipt of an
application under subregulation (2), approve the application if satisfied
as to the insolvency of the licensee.
      (4) Where the relevant regulatory authority approves an
application by a licensee under this regulation, such licensee shall
immediately cease all its operations except the activities that are
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                         4333

incidental to the orderly realisation, conservation and preservation of its
assets and settlement of its obligations.
       (5) A licensee, where it holds consumer funds, shall discharge its
liability to its consumers as soon as practicable after the
commencement of the liquidation and shall then rank all other creditors
in accordance with the Insolvency Act.
      150. (1) The relevant regulatory authority may make an                  Involuntary
                                                                              liquidation.
application to the court for the liquidation of a licensee in accordance
with Part VI of the Insolvency Act.
      (2) If an application for the liquidation of a licensee is presented
by a person other than the relevant regulatory authority, the applicant
shall serve a copy of the application to the relevant regulatory
authority, and the relevant regulatory authority shall be entitled to be a
party to the proceedings.
      151. A person aggrieved by any decision of the relevant                 Appeals.

regulatory authority under these Regulations may appeal against that
decision in accordance with section 43 of the Act.
      4334                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

                                        FIRST SCHEDULE
             (rr. 5(1), 6(2)(u), 7, 11(3)(b), 13(1), 29(2), 49(2)(g); 61(2)(c), 62(2)(h))
                                         FEES PAYABLE
1.     APPLICATION AND LICENCE FEES
                                                     Application Fee           Licence Fee
 No.                      Types
                                                          (KSh.)                  (KSh.)
 1.      Virtual Asset Wallet Provider                   100,000                 500,000

 2.      Virtual Asset Exchange                          100,000                1,000,000

 3.      Virtual Asset Payment Processor                 100,000                 200,000
 4.      Virtual Asset Broker                            100,000                 100,000
 5.      Virtual Assets Investment Advisor                10,000                  50,000
 6.      Virtual Asset Manager                            50,000                 200,000
 7.      Virtual Asset Offering Provider -               100,000                 500,000
        Initial Coin Offering
 8.     Virtual Asset Offering Provider -                100,000                 500,000
        Virtual Asset Tokenization
 9.     Virtual Asset Offering Provider -                100,000                 500,000
        Token Issuance Platform
 10.    Virtual Asset Offering Provider -                100,000                2,000,000
        Stablecoin Issuance


2.     RENEWAL FEES
                                                               Renewal Fee
 No.                  Types
                                                                   (KSh.)
1.      Virtual Asset Wallet Provider 500,000 or 0.15% of gross turnover, whichever is
                                      higher
2.      Virtual Asset Exchange            500,000 or 0.5 % of the gross revenue of the
                                          previous year, whichever is higher
3.      Virtual Asset Broker              100,000


4.      Virtual Assets        Investment 50,000
        Advisor
5.      Virtual Asset Manager             0.05% of assets under management, subject to a
                                          minimum of Kshs.200,000 and a maximum of
                                          Kshs.5,000,000
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                        4335

                                                            Renewal Fee
 No.              Types
                                                                (KSh.)
6.     Virtual    Asset   Offering 500,000 or 0.15% of gross turnover, whichever is
       Provider   - Initial Coin higher
       Offering
7.     Virtual    Asset  Offering 500,000 or 0.15% of gross turnover, whichever is
       Provider - Virtual Asset higher
       Tokenization
8.     Virtual   Asset  Offering 500,000 or 0.15% of gross turnover, whichever is
       Provider - Token Issuance higher
       Platform
9.     Virtual    Asset      Offering 2,000,000 or 0.15% of gross turnover, whichever is
       Provider    -       Stablecoin higher
       Issuance
10. Virtual   Asset          Payment    Threshold (Gross transaction        Renewal Fee
    Processor                            value per annum in Kshs.)
                                                                               (Kshs)
                                       Zero (0) – one billion             20,000
                                       One billion and one – Ten          100,000
                                       billion
                                       Ten billion and one– Fifty         500,000
                                       billion
                                       Fifty billion and one – one        1,000,000
                                       hundred billion
                                       one hundred billion and one–       5,000,000
                                       five hundred billion
                                       five hundred billion and one –     10,000,000
                                       one trillion
                                       Above one trillion                 15,000,000


3.    APPROVAL FEES

                                          Fee payable to the relevant regulatory authority
 No.              Fee Type
                                                                 (KSh.)

 1.    Approval of initial coin offering 0.25 % of the value of the successful offer,
                                         subject to a minimum of Kshs.200,000 and a
                                         maximum of Ksh. 30 million
 2.    Approval of        virtual   asset 0.25 % of the value of the successful offer,
       tokenisation                       subject to a minimum of Kshs.200,000 and a
                                          maximum of Ksh. 30 million
     4336                 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

4. OTHER FEES
                                                           Amount
 No.            Description of fee
                                                               (KSh.)
1.      Approval       fee   for   proposed 0.25 % of the transaction value or
        acquisition, transfer or disposal of Ksh.50,000, whichever is higher.
        shares in a licencee
2.      Approval fee for assignment or Licence fee for the license category
        transfer of a licence
                                       Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                                                     4337

                                                SECOND SCHEDULE
                                                             FORMS
APPLICATION FORM FOR VIRTUAL ASSET SERVICE PROVIDER LICENCE
                        (rr. 6(1) & 11(3)(a))
The relevant parts of this Form are to be completed by applicants and shall be
submitted with any additional information that is required to the relevant regulatory
authority.
PART A: APPLICANT’S GENERAL INFORMATION
  1.    Name of Applicant ...................................................................................................
        ...................................................................................................................................
  2.    Trading name(s) of applicant
  3.    Any other commercial name by which applicant is known or operating as: ...........
        ...................................................................................................................................
  4.    Former name(s) (if any) by which the virtual asset service provider has
        been known ..............................................................................................................
        ...................................................................................................................................
  5.    Date of Incorporation ...............................................................................................
  6.    Certificate Reg. No. ..................................................................................................
Full Business Contact Details of Applicant
  7.    Physical office in Kenya:
    L.R. No: ............................................... Street: ..............................................................
    Building:.........................................................................................................................
    Town/City: ....................................................................................................................
  8.    Postal Address and Postal Code: ..............................................................................
  9.    Geolocation Address / Google Maps location pin: ..................................................
  10. Telephone No: ..........................................................................................................
  11. KRA P.I.N.: ..............................................................................................................
  12. E-mail address ..........................................................................................................
  13. Website: ....................................................................................................................
 14. Location of other offices in Kenya:
         County                     Physical Address                 Telephone Number                   Email Address
   4338                                 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

15. Countries of operation:
                                                       Products
                                            Regulator            Physical
               Trade                                     and               Telephone Email
  Country Name                               (where              Address
               Name                                    services             Number Address
                                           applicable)          of Offices
                                                       provided




16. Parent company:
                               Regulator           Virtual asset Physical                                             Email
                Trade                                                                          Telephone
   Name                         (where               services Address of                                             Address
                Name                                                                            Number
                              applicable)           provided     Offices




17. Registered subsidiaries:
                                                   Products
                                                                        Physical
                Trade                              and                                       Telephon            Email
  Name                        Regulator                                 Address
                Name                               services                                  e Number            Address
                                                                        of Offices
                                                   provided




PART B: TYPE OF VIRTUAL ASSET ACTIVITIES
18. Specify the type(s) of virtual asset activities for which the Applicant is applying
    for a license as specified in the First Schedule of the Act
 ............................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................
 ............................................................................................................................................
                             Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                      4339

PART C: PARTICULARS OF SHAREHOLDERS, DIRECTORS, AND SENIOR
         OFFICERS
19.     Provide full details of Shareholders, Directors, and Senior Officers in the format
        below.
19.1 Particulars of shareholding:
Note: If more than 10 shareholders, attach a list.
                  Name               Nationality       Individual/       Percentage (%)
                                                        Corporate         Shareholding
  1
  2
  3
  4
  5
  6
  7
  8
  9
  10


19.2 Particulars of Directors
       Name Age and Proposed ID No./ Qualificatio Postal Tele- Experienc           Other
         of                        Passpo n (academic and phone             e
               Nationali Capacity rt No.                                          Current
                                              and       Email contacts
       Propos     ty                                                   / previous
                         (Executiv        professional address
         ed                                                            employme Director
                             e                  )                                 ship (s)
                                                                            nt
       Directo
          r                /Non-
                        Executive
                             )
 1.


 2.

 3.

 4.
      4340                             Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

19.3 Particulars of Senior Officers

         Na        Age            Propos         ID          Qualific         Post       Teleph                        Curr
         me        and            ed             No./        ation            al         one           Experie         ent
         of        Nation                        Pass                         and        contac        nce
                   ality          Design         port                         Ema        ts            /previo         Posit
         Pro                      ation          No.         (academ          il                       us              ion
         pos                                                 ic and
                                                                              addr                     employ
         ed                                                  professi         ess                      ment
                                                             onal)
         Sen
         ior
         Off
         ice
         r

 1.


 2.


 3.


 4.



PART D: CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND APPLICANT OPERATIONS
20.     Details of the Applicant’s capital structure
        i.      Nominal capital (KSh.) ......................................................................................
        ii.     Number of shares: ..............................................................................................
        iii.    Paid up capital (KSh.): .......................................................................................
21.     Evidence that the Applicant has adequate insurance in accordance with
        regulation 29. Insurance policy/proposal coverage: __________________
22.     Provide names and addresses of principal bankers for the virtual asset business.
        Name of bank: .............................................................................................................
        Branch name: ..............................................................................................................
        Account name: ............................................................................................................
        Account number: ........................................................................................................
        Bank Address: .............................................................................................................
I/we enclose an original letter from my/our bank confirming the above.
Note: If there is more than one bank account for the virtual asset business, provide
                                         Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                                                      4341

          full details.
23.     Provide a list of your proposed virtual asset custodians, virtual asset service
        providers offering any other services to you, and other service and technical
        providers, as applicable.
                         Description                                                      Services Provided




24.     For virtual asset wallet providers, indicate the types and amounts of virtual assets
        which the applicant proposes to hold on behalf of consumers and reasons for
        facilitating the safekeeping of these virtual assets. ......................................................
        .....................................................................................................................................
        .....................................................................................................................................
        .....................................................................................................................................
25.     For virtual asset exchanges, provide a list of virtual assets to be listed on the
        exchange.
        .....................................................................................................................................
        .....................................................................................................................................
        .....................................................................................................................................
26. Operational Capabilities
      Provide a detailed description of the Applicant’s operational capabilities,
      including the physical premises, cybersecurity protocols, data management
      systems, data protection systems, risk management systems,, virtual clearing,
      virtual custody arrangements (including segregation of consumer virtual assets),
      communication capabilities, business continuity plans, disaster recovery plans,
      and recovery and redemption plans, as applicable.
      ........................................................................................................................................
      ........................................................................................................................................
      ........................................................................................................................................
27.     Policies and Procedures
        Provide a summary of the applicant’s written audit, internal controls and risk
        management policies and procedures, including:
        (a) Virtual asset management
        (b) Information and Communications Technology (ICT)
      4342                              Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

        (c) Cybersecurity
        (d) Data protection
        (e) Outsourcing
        (f) Operational controls
        (g) AML/CFT/CPF policies and controls
        (h) Reporting policies
        (i) Corporate governance
        (j) Code of conduct
        (k) Market conduct
        (l) Consumer protection
(Attach a complete copy of these policies and procedures.
28.     Financial Statements
        Provide the audited financial statements, for the two years immediately
        preceding the year of application or the opening financial statement verified by
        an auditor (as applicable).
29.     Funding
        The existing and/or intended sources of funds to be utilised in the virtual asset
        business are as follows:
                   Type of Funding                                              Approximate Percentage
Own funds
Borrowed funds
Donor funds
Any other (please specify)


30.     Contact Person of the Applicant
        Give the name, business telephone number, and email address of a senior officer
        of the Applicant who is knowledgeable about the application and who may be
        contacted to discuss it.
        Name: ..........................................................................................................................
        Telephone Number: ....................................................................................................
        Email Address: ............................................................................................................
PART E: DECLARATION
DECLARATION:
To be signed and submitted by two directors of the applicant.
We, the undersigned, declare that we are duly authorised to make this application. We
confirm that we have read and understood the provisions of the Virtual Asset Service
                                         Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                                                  4343

Providers Act and the Regulations made under it and the Proceeds of Crime and Anti-
Money Laundering Act and the Regulations made under it, and we declare that the
business in respect of which this application is made will be conducted in accordance
with the law. We declare the information provided in the application to be accurate in
all material aspects to the best of our knowledge and belief.
We affirm that to the best of our information, knowledge and belief, the applicant is
currently in compliance with all the applicable provisions of the Act; and the contents
of this form and any attachments provided with this form are true, correct and not
misleading.
Certification and signature of at least two directors
 DIRECTOR:

 (Name and signature)

 DIRECTOR:

 (Name and signature)

 Date:


WITNESSED BEFORE ME:
COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS/MAGISTRATE
Name: ...................................................................................................................................
Signature: .............................................................................................................................
Address: ................................................................................................................................
Date and Stamp: ...................................................................................................................


REQUIRED ATTACHMENTS
I/We enclose the following:
Non-refundable application fee as per the schedule.
    1.     Identity documents, including passports and proof residence for each natural
           person in Part B.
    2.     A certified copy of the applicant’s Memorandum and Articles of Association,
           or equivalent incorporation documents by which the applicant is constituted.
    3.     Certificate of Incorporation from Registrar of Companies.
    4.     CR12 and BOF1 form.
    5.     Copy of PIN tax compliance certificate for the Applicant.
    6.     A copy of any other registration or licensing certificate (if applicable).
    7.     Copy of the latest financial statements of the business (if already conducting a
           virtual asset business) or statement of financial position (if the applicant has
           not commenced operations).
4344                     Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

8.   Copy of the applicant’s detailed and up to date business plan, inclusive of
     financial and operational projections, staffing requirements, a description of the
     products and services offered, target market and technological requirements as
     per the Regulations.
9.   Copy of the applicant’s written supervisory, internal controls and risk
     management policies and procedures.
10. Evidence that the applicant has adequate insurance and minimum base capital
    in accordance with regulation 4.
11. Organisational structure, including job descriptions for each office bearer.
12. A schedule of proposed fees for services rendered by the virtual asset business.
13. Copy of the applicant’s written policies and procedures, including:
     (a)   Virtual asset management
     (b)   Information and Communications Technology (ICT)
     (c)   Cybersecurity
     (d)   Data protection
     (e)   Outsourcing
     (f)   Operational controls
     (g)   AML/CFT/CPF policies and controls
     (h)   Reporting policies
     (i)   Corporate governance
     (j)   Code of conduct
     (k)   Market conduct
     (l)   Consumer protection
14. The annual accounts, for the two years immediately preceding the year of
    application of each corporate shareholder holding more than ten per cent of the
    applicant’s issued share capital or total voting rights.
15. A statement indicating whether the applicant intends to provide any other
    services which are regulated under the Act and these Regulations.
16. Evidence that the applicant has adequate insurance and regulatory capital.
17. Evidence of the applicant’s registration with any other regulatory authority, if
    applicable.
18. Completed Fit and Proper forms as per the Regulations in respect of each
    significant shareholder, beneficial owner, director and senior officer of the
    Applicant.
19. Names and addresses of service providers – (i.e., banks, audit firms, attorneys,
    and custodians, etc.)
20. Copies of outsourcing or service level agreements (if applicable).
21. An organizational chart of the company ownership structure.
                        Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                     4345

22. A declaration by the individual significant shareholders and directors on the
    sources of funds. The declaration should be certified by an Advocate or a
    Commissioner for Oaths
23. All additional information as to be provided in the Application form above.
24. Provide a copy of any agreement, contract or disclosure which will be used
    during the provision of virtual asset custody services, outlining all information
    that will be provided to the owners of the virtual assets including, but not
    limited to, fees, compensation structures, recourse available to the owners of
    the assets in event of loss and the method by which the owners may access the
    virtual assets.
25. Provide information about contracts with affiliates or any other third parties
    regarding any services related to the provision of virtual asset custody services
    which will be outsourced or provided by a third party.
26. Indicate where physical hardware supporting the trading platform will be
    located.
27. Provide standard consumer agreements and terms by which each specific
    virtual asset will be listed, traded or exchanged, or which consumers will be
    presented with.
28. Provide a detailed outline of the applicant’s measures to identify and prevent
    conflicts of interest, insider trading or price manipulation.
29. Provide a statement outlining the proposed clearing and settlement process
    which will be utilized by the trading platform in order to perfect trades and
    exchanges.
     4346                                Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

        APPLICATION FORM FOR RENEWAL OF VIRTUAL ASSET SERVICE
                  PROVIDER LICENCE         (r. 11(3)(a))
The relevant parts of this Form are to be completed by licensees and shall be submitted
with any additional information that is required to the relevant regulatory authority.
PART A: LICENSEE’S GENERAL INFORMATION
1.   Name of Virtual Asset Service Provider .......................................................................
2.   Physical address:
     L.R. No: ................................................... Street: ..........................................................
     Building:.........................................................................................................................
     Town/City: ....................................................................................................................
3.   Postal Address and Postal Code: ...................................................................................
4.   Geolocation Address / Google Maps location pin: . ...................................................... .
5.   Telephone No: ..............................................................................................................
6.   E-mail address ...............................................................................................................
7.   Website: ........................................................................................................................
8.   Date of incorporation ....................................................................................................
9.   Certificate of incorporation No. .....................................................................................
10. Number and date of issue of previous licence
     Licence Number: ...........................................................................................................
     Date issued: ...................................................................................................................
11. Licensed virtual asset activities
 .............................................................................................................................................
 .............................................................................................................................................
 .............................................................................................................................................
 .............................................................................................................................................


12. Location of other offices in Kenya:
                     County                                 Physical Address                            Telephone Number                         Email Address
                            Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                  4347

 13. Countries of operation:
                                           Products
                             Regulator                 Physical
              Trade                        and                    Telephon Email
 Country Name                (where                    Address
              Name                         services               e Number Address
                             applicable)               of Offices
                                           provided




 14. Parent company:
                                        Virtual
                          Regulator                    Physical
              Trade                      asset                      Telephone    Email
 Name                      (where                     Address of
              Name                     services                      Number     Address
                         applicable)                   Offices
                                       provided




15.    Registered subsidiaries:
                                    Products        Physical
              Trade                                                Telephone     Email
      Name              Regulator and services     Address of
              name                                                  number      Address
                                   provided         Offices
      4348                  Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026



PART C: PARTICULARS OF SHAREHOLDERS, DIRECTORS, AND SENIOR
         OFFICERS


16.     Provide full details of Shareholders, Directors, and Senior Officers in the format
        below.
Particulars of shareholding:
Note: If more than 10 shareholders, attach a list.
               Name            Nationality           Individual/       Percentage (%)
                                                      Corporate         Shareholding

 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
 9
 10


Particulars of Directors


        Name Age Proposed ID Qualification Postal Tele- Experience Other
          of    and            No. (academic      and   phone
                     Capacity                                    / previous Current
                                       and       Email contacts
        Propos Natio            / professional) address         employment
          ed nality (Executiv Passp                                          Director
                         e                                                   ship (s)
                               ort
        Direct                 No.
          or          /Non-
                     Executive
                         )
  1.
  2.
  3.
  4.
                                      Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                                              4349




Particulars of Senior Officers
         Name
          of                          Qualificatio
                        Propose ID         n                        Experien Curren
                                                    Postal
       Propose Age and      d                              Telepho      ce     t
                                No./ (academic       and
          d    National                                      ne     /previous
                               Passpo               Email
                 ity Designa              and              contacts employm Positio
        Senior            tion rt No. professional address             ent     n
                                           )
       Officer
  1.
  2.
  3.
  4.


Particulars of shareholding:

        Name of   Age Propos ID Qualificati Postal                                          Tele         Experie Curr
                  and     ed      No      on      and                                       phon          nce /    ent
         Proposed Nati
                                   ./            Email                                        e          previou
         Senior   onal Designatio Pa (academic addre                                        conta           s    Position
                   ity     n      ssp    and       ss                                        cts         employ
         Officer                      profession
                                  ort                                                                     ment
                                          al)
                                  No
                                    .

 1.

 2.

 3.


PART D: LICENSEE’S OPERATIONS
17.    Insurance service provider: …………………………………………………
18.    Insurance policy coverage: …………………………………………………
19.    Provide names and addresses of principal bankers for the virtual asset business.
       Name of bank: .............................................................................................................
       Branch name: ..............................................................................................................
       Account name: ............................................................................................................
       Account number: ........................................................................................................
      4350                               Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

         Bank Address: .............................................................................................................
Note: If there is more than one bank account for the virtual asset business, provide full
       details.
20.      Provide a list of your virtual asset custodians, virtual asset service providers
         offering any other services to you, and other service and technical providers, as
         applicable.
                                 Description                                                  Services Provided




21.      For virtual asset wallet providers, indicate the types and amounts of virtual assets
         which the licensee holds on behalf of consumers and reasons for facilitating the
         safekeeping of these virtual assets.
         .....................................................................................................................................
         .....................................................................................................................................
         .....................................................................................................................................
22.      For virtual asset exchanges, provide a list of virtual assets listed on the exchange.
         .....................................................................................................................................
         .....................................................................................................................................
         .....................................................................................................................................
23.      Contact Person of the Licensee
Give the name, business telephone number, and email address of a senior officer of the
licensee who is knowledgeable about the application for licence renewal and who may be
contacted to discuss it.
Name: ...................................................................................................................................
Telephone Number: ..............................................................................................................
Email Address: .....................................................................................................................
PART E: DECLARATION
DECLARATION:
To be signed and submitted by two directors of the licensee.
We, the undersigned, declare that we are duly authorised to make this licence renewal
application. We confirm that we have read and understood the provisions of the Virtual
Asset Service Providers Act and the Regulations made under it and the Proceeds of Crime
and Anti-Money Laundering Act and the Regulations made under it, and we declare that
the business in respect of which this application is made will be conducted in accordance
with the law. We declare the information provided in the application to be accurate in all
material aspects to the best of our knowledge and belief.
                                         Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                                                  4351

We affirm that to the best of our information, knowledge and belief, the institution is
currently in compliance with all the applicable provisions of the Act; and the contents of
this form and any attachments provided with this form are true, correct and not
misleading.
Certification and signature of at least two directors

 DIRECTOR:

 (Name and signature)


 DIRECTOR:

 (Name and signature)

 Date:


WITNESSED BEFORE ME:
COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS/MAGISTRATE
Name: ...................................................................................................................................
Signature: ............................................................................................................................. ............................................
Address: ............................................................................................................................... .
Date and Stamp: ...................................................................................................................


REQUIRED ATTACHMENTS
I/We enclose the following:
    1.     Non-refundable licence renewal fee as per the schedule.
    2.     CR12 and BOF1 form.
    3.     Copy of the latest financial statements of the business.
    4.     Names and addresses of service providers – (i.e., bankers, audit firms, attorneys,
           and custodians, etc.)
    5.     An organizational chart of the company ownership structure.
    6.     An organizational structure chart showing the governance, management, and
           reporting lines of the company.
   4352                   Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

                                 THIRD SCHEDULE
                                        (r. 6(2)(b))
                        CONTENTS OF A BUSINESS PLAN
      Please provide a business plan ensuring that the following details are included in
the sequence provided below. Any additional information is encouraged.
     1.   Executive Summary
          §   Overview of the proposed VASP business
          §   Vision and mission statement
          §   Rationale for market entry
     2.   Corporate Governance Structure
          §   Proposed board structure and committees
          §   Board charter, including roles and responsibilities of the Board and its
              committees
     3.   Operational Plan
          §   Staffing and organisational structure
          §   Powers and duties of senior officers
          §   Premises and facilities
          §   Outsourcing arrangements (if any)
     4.   Description of Virtual Asset Services to be Offered
          §   Nature and scope of activities
          §   Operating model and service delivery channels
          §   Consumer onboarding and due diligence procedures
          §   Terms, conditions and charges for virtual asset services
     5.   Technology and Security Infrastructure
          §   Description of the ICT systems, cybersecurity controls, network
              architecture diagram, data flow diagram, interactions with other key
              components, and the standards they conform to.
          §   Trading systems
          §   Wallet infrastructure and addresses (hot/cold storage)
          §   Data protection and privacy measures
     6.   Risk Management Framework
          §   Risk register identifying key risks (market, operational, technology,
              liquidity, custody, fraud, etc.) and risk mitigation strategies.
          §   Business continuity and disaster recovery plan.
     7.   Compliance and Internal Controls
          §   AML/CFT/CPF framework
          §   Compliance monitoring plan
                           Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                         4353

     8.    Financial Projections
           §   Revenue model and cost structure
           §   Capital adequacy and liquidity plans
           §   3- to 5-year financial projections including Income Statements, statement
               of financial position and Cash Flow statement projections.
     9.    Market Analysis
           §   Target market segmentation
           §   Competitor landscape
           §   Expected market share and growth strategy
           §   Identification of market needs
     10. Fees and Charges Structure
           §   Trading fees
           §   Transfer fees
           §   Commissions
           §   Management fees
           §   Other charges
     11. Consumer Assets and Safeguarding Arrangements
           §   Segregation of consumer and firm assets
           §   Insurance/compensation arrangements
           §   Mechanisms put in place to protect consumers’ funds in the eventuality of
               system failure, revocation/suspension of license/insolvency of the
               entity/discontinuation of business.
     12. Implementation Plan
           §   Timelines for rollout of virtual asset services
           §   Key milestones
           §   Resource allocation
           §   Indicate envisioned rollout plan for the first three years:


    Year       Number of Consumers                 Value                     Volume
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
     4354                                 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

                                                    FOURTH SCHEDULE
                                                              (r. 6(2)(c))
                                          FIT AND PROPER ASSESEMENT
  FIT AND PROPER FORM FOR DIRECTORS, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND
                         SENIOR OFFICERS
NB: This form should be duly completed, accompanied by the complete set of
    documents required under the Regulations and submitted to the relevant regulatory
    authority.
1.    VIRTUAL ASSET PROVIDER
Name of Virtual Asset Service Provider: . ............................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
Proposed position: ................................................................................................................
2.    PERSONAL INFORMATION
      (a) Surname……........................ Other Names.......................................
      (b) Previous Names (if any) by which you have been known: ………..
      Reasons for change of names ........................................................................................
      (c) Year and Place of birth: ……………………………………………
      (d) Nationality and how acquired ……………………………………..
      (e) Personal Identification Number (PIN) ...................................................................
      (f) Identification Card number and date of issue ........................................................
      (g) Passport number, place and date of issue ..............................................................
      (h) Postal Address: ......................................................................................................
      (i) Physical Address: ...................................................................................................
      (j) Email address: ........................................................................................................
      (k) Telephone numbers: ...............................................................................................
3.    EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
        Qualifications                         Year Obtained                 Examining Body                   Grade Obtained
1.
2.
3.
                                          Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                                                      4355

4.    PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS AND YEARS OBTAINED

               Qualifications                      Year Obtained                Examining Body                  Grade Obtained

1.
2.
3.
5.    NAME (S) OF YOUR BANKERS DURING THE LAST 5 YEARS:
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
6.    RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPOSED POSITION
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
      7.      EMPLOYMENT/ BUSINESS RECORD
                             Name of
                                                  Position Held                                             Reasons for Leaving
      Period                Employer/                                        Responsibilities
                                                    & Dates                                                  (where applicable)
                             Business




8.    DESCRIPTION OF PAST AND PRESENT ACTIVITIES IN KENYA AND ABROAD
8.1 Shareholding (Directly Owned Or Through Nominees) In The Past 5 Years
                                                                                                  Name and
            Certificate of                                                                        address of
  Company’s                Number of % of Significant                                                                       Past
            registration                                                                          Beneficial
    Name                   Shares held Shareholding                                                                     Shareholding
                 No.                                                                              Owner of
                                                                                                    shares
      4356                                Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

8.2      Directorships In The Past 5 Years

                         Certificate of                                                              Date of
  Company’s                              Executive or                       Position                                      Reasons for
                         registration
    Name                                Non-executive                        held                 appointment               leaving
                              No.




8.3      Membership To Professional Bodies

     Name of the                                                                   Current status of                  Reasons for
                            Membership No. Position held
      institution                                                                    membership                         leaving




9.       HISTORY
9.1      Have you ever defaulted in your financial obligations in the last five years?
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
If yes, give details ...............................................................................................................
9.2 Have you at any time been convicted of any offence involving dishonesty or fraud
    or contravened any law designed to protect members of the public arising from
    dishonesty, incompetence, malpractice, misconduct in any jurisdiction. If so, give
    particulars of the court and case number in which you were convicted, the
    offence, the penalty imposed and the date of conviction ………...
       ........................................................................................................................................
       ........................................................................................................................................
       ........................................................................................................................................
9.3 Do you confirm that if appointed as a director of the Company that you will
    undertake your role diligently, in accordance with the duties of a director under the
    law and that you will do so without reservation? If so give particulars
       ........................................................................................................................................
       ........................................................................................................................................
       ........................................................................................................................................
9.4      Do you confirm that if you have the knowledge and understanding of the legal and
         professional obligations to be assumed or undertaken with your position? If so, give
         particulars?
                                         Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                                                      4357

       .......................................................................................................................................
       .......................................................................................................................................
       .......................................................................................................................................
9.5     Have you ever been disqualified, under any legislation or regulation from
        acting as a director or serving in a managerial capacity?
       .......................................................................................................................................
       .......................................................................................................................................
       .......................................................................................................................................
9.6     Have you, in any country, ever been dismissed from any office or employment, or
        been asked to resign or resigned from employment or position of trust or
        fiduciary appointment? If so give particulars
        .....................................................................................................................................
        .....................................................................................................................................
        .....................................................................................................................................
9.7     Have you ever been adjudged bankrupt?..............................................
        If so, give particulars
       .......................................................................................................................................
       .......................................................................................................................................
       .......................................................................................................................................
9.8     Have you ever been convicted of fraud or theft by a court of law in any
        country? If so, give particulars
        .....................................................................................................................................
        .....................................................................................................................................
        .....................................................................................................................................
9.9 Have you ever been convicted of offences under any virtual assets law in any
    country? If so, give particulars
       .......................................................................................................................................
       .......................................................................................................................................
       .......................................................................................................................................
9.10     Has any entity with which you were associated as a director, shareholder or
         manager in any country been in financial distress, made any compromise or
         arrangement with its creditors, been wound up or otherwise ceased business either
         while you were associated with it or within three years after you ceased to be
         associated with it? If so, give particulars
       .......................................................................................................................................
       .......................................................................................................................................
       .......................................................................................................................................
     4358                                 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

9.11       Indicate the names, postal and e-mail addresses, telephone numbers and positions
           of at least three individuals of good standing who would be able to provide a
           reference on your personal and professional integrity. The referees must not be
           related to you, and should have known you for at least five years.
                Name of                                                           Tel no.        Position
                                     Postal                   E-mail                                                      Relationship
                                                                                                 (where
                Referee              Address                  address             (s)                                     with applicant
                                                                                                 applicable)
      1.
      2.
      3.
9.12       Is there any additional information which you consider relevant for the
           consideration of your suitability or otherwise for the position(s) held / to be held?
           The omission of material facts may represent the provision of misleading
           information
   ............................................................................................................................................
   ............................................................................................................................................
   ............................................................................................................................................
10. DECLARATION
I am an adult of sound mind. I am aware that it is an offence to knowingly provide any
information, which is false or misleading. I am also aware that omitting material
information intentionally shall be construed to be an offence.
I certify that the information given above is complete and accurate to the best of my
knowledge, and that there are no other facts relevant to this application of which the
relevant regulatory authority should be aware.
I undertake to inform the relevant regulatory authority of any material changes to the
information provided herein:
NAME .....................................................................................................................................
POSITION HELD .....................................................................................................................
DATE AT ...................................................... THIS DAY OF..................................................
SIGNED.. ................................................................................................................................
(Applicant)
(This declaration must be signed in the presence of the witness named below)
WITNESSED BEFORE ME:
COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS/MAGISTRATE
Name: . .................................................................................................................................
Signature: ...........................................................................................................................
Address: ..............................................................................................................................
Date and Stamp: .................................................................................................................
                         Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                     4359

Attachments:
  1.   Curriculum Vitae and certified copies of academic and professional certificates.
  2.   Certified copies of National Identity Card and Personal Identification Number
       (PIN) certificate.
  3.   Current credit rating report from a credit reference bureau.
  4.   Total number and the percentage of shares to be acquired and evidence of the
       consideration given or to be given for the same.
  5.   For shareholders, provide a declaration witnessed by an advocate indicating that
       none of the funds the shareholder, beneficial owners, or directors seeks to invest
       are from proceeds of crime.
  6.   Current credit rating report from a credit reference bureau.
  7.   CR12 and BOF1 for corporate shareholders
     4360                                 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

                       FIT AND PROPER FORM FOR BENEFICIAL OWNERS
NB: This form should be duly completed, accompanied by the complete set of
      documents required under Part III and submitted to the relevant regulatory
      authority.
1. VIRTUAL ASSET PROVIDER
Name of Virtual Asset Service Provider:
Proposed position .........................................................................................
2. PERSONAL INFORMATION
    (a) Surname ……........................... Other Names .......................................................
    (b) Previous Names (if any) by which you have been known: ....................................
           Reasons for change of names .................................................................................
    (c) Year and Place of birth: . ........................................................................................
    (d) Nationality and how acquired ................................................................................
    (e) Personal Identification Number (PIN) ...................................................................
    (f) Identification Card number and date of issue ........................................................
    (g) Passport number, place and date of issue................................................................
    (h) Postal Address: ......................................................................................................
    (i) Physical Address: ...................................................................................................
    (j) Email address: ........................................................................................................
    (k) Telephone numbers: ...............................................................................................
    (l) Name(s) of your bankers during the last 5 years:
             ...............................................................................................................................
             ...............................................................................................................................
             ...............................................................................................................................
             ...............................................................................................................................
    (m) Responsibilities of proposed position
      ......................................................................................................................................
      ......................................................................................................................................
      ......................................................................................................................................
3.     DESCRIPTION OF PAST AND PRESENT ACTIVITIES IN KENYA AND ABROAD
3.1 SHAREHOLDING (DIRECTLY OWNED OR THROUGH NOMINEES) IN THE PAST 5 YEARS
 Company’s Certificate of Number of % of Significant Name and                                                            Past
   Name    registration Shares held                  address of                                                      Shareholding
                No.                  Shareholding Beneficial
                                                     Owner of
                                                       shares
                                                 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                                                      4361

3.2          DIRECTORSHIPS IN THE PAST 5 YEARS
       Company’s               Certificate of           Executive or              Position                 Date of              Reasons for
         Name                  registration                Non-                    held                                           leaving
                                    No.                  executive                                     appointment




4.           HISTORY
      4.1 Have you ever defaulted in your financial obligations in the last five years?
             If yes, give details .......................................................................................................
             ........................................................................................................................................
             ........................................................................................................................................
      4.2 Have you at any time been convicted of any offence involving dishonesty or
             fraud or contravened any law designed to protect members of the public arising from
             dishonesty, incompetence, malpractice, misconduct in any jurisdiction. If so, give
             particulars of the court and case number in which you were convicted, the
             offence, the penalty imposed and the date of conviction
      ...............................................................................................................................................
      ...............................................................................................................................................
      ...............................................................................................................................................
      4.3 Do you confirm that if appointed as a director of the Company that you will
             undertake your role diligently, in accordance with the duties of a director under the
             law and that you will do so without reservation? If so give particulars
             . .......................................................................................................................................
             ........................................................................................................................................
             ........................................................................................................................................
      4.4 Do you confirm that if you have the knowledge and understanding of the legal and
             professional obligations to be assumed or undertaken with your position? If so, give
             particulars? ....................................................................................................................
             ........................................................................................................................................
             ........................................................................................................................................
      4.5 Have you ever been disqualified, under any legislation or regulation from
          acting as a director or serving in a managerial capacity? ....................................
             ........................................................................................................................................
             ........................................................................................................................................
      4.6 Have you, in any country, ever been dismissed from any office or
          employment, or been asked to resign or resigned from employment or position
          of trust or fiduciary appointment? If so give particulars ........................................
             ........................................................................................................................................
             ........................................................................................................................................
       4362                               Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

Have you ever been adjudged bankrupt? .......................................................................
If so, give particulars ........................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
4.7 Have you ever been convicted of fraud or theft by a court of law in any
    country? If so, give particulars
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
4.8 Have you ever been convicted of offences under any virtual assets law in any
country? If so, give particulars
    ........................................................................................................................................
    ........................................................................................................................................
    ........................................................................................................................................
4.9 Has any entity with which you were associated as a director, shareholder or
    manager in any country been in financial distress, made any compromise or
    arrangement with its creditors, been wound up or otherwise ceased business either
    while you were associated with it or within three years after you ceased to be
    associated with it? If so, give particulars ....................................................................
    ........................................................................................................................................
    ........................................................................................................................................
 4.10 Indicate the names, postal and e-­mail addresses, telephone numbers and
      positions of at least three individuals of good standing who would be able
      to provide a reference on your personal and professional integrity. The
      referees must not be related to you, and should have known you for at least
      five years.
           Name of                                                           Tel no.           Position
                                        Postal             E-mail                                                      Relationship
                                                                                                (where
           Referee                     Address             address               (s)                                  with applicant
                                                                                              applicable)
  1.
  2.
  3.


  4.11 Is there any additional information which you consider relevant for the
       consideration of your suitability or otherwise for the position(s) held/to be held?
       The omission of material facts may represent the provision of misleading
       information
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
                                              Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                                                   4363

5.         DECLARATION
     I am an adult of sound mind. I am aware that it is an offence to knowingly provide any
     information, which is false or misleading. I am also aware that omitting material
     information intentionally shall be construed to be an offence.
     I certify that the information given above is complete and accurate to the best of my
     knowledge, and that there are no other facts relevant to this application of which the
     relevant regulatory authority should be aware.
     I undertake to inform the relevant regulatory authority of any material changes to the
     information provided herein:
     NAME….....…………………….............. POSITION HELD ...................................................
     DATED AT …........................... THIS DAY OF ......................................................................
     SIGNED ...................................................................................................................................
     (Applicant)
     (This declaration must be signed in the presence of the witness named below)


     WITNESSED BEFORE ME:
     COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS/MAGISTRATE
     Name: ...................................................................................................................................
     Signature: ............................................................................................................................
     Address: ...............................................................................................................................
     Date and Stamp: .................................................................................................................
     Attachments:
     1.    Curriculum Vitae and certified copies of academic and professional certificates.
     2.    Certified copies of National Identity Card and Personal Identification Number (PIN)
           certificate.
     3.    Current credit rating report from a credit reference bureau.
     4.    Total number and the percentage of shares to be acquired and evidence of the
           consideration given or to be given for the same.
     5.    For shareholders, provide a declaration witnessed by an advocate indicating that
           none of the funds the shareholder, beneficial owners, or directors seeks to invest are
           from proceeds of crime.
     6.    Current credit rating report from a credit reference bureau.
     7.    CR12 and BOF1 for corporate shareholders
        4364                                 Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

                               FIT AND PROPER FORM FOR OTHER PERSONS
   NB: This form should be duly completed and submitted accompanied by the complete
        set of documents provided under Regulations.
1.   VIRTUAL ASSET PROVIDER
     Name of Virtual Asset Service Provider: ........................................................................
     Proposed position: ...........................................................................................................
2. INFORMATION
     (a) Name of the corporate body/individual .................................................................
     (b) Previous names (if any) by which you have been known ......................................
     (c) Date of incorporation/birth .....................................................................................
     (d) Country of incorporation/birth ...............................................................................
     (e) Registration No./Identification No./Passport No. ..................................................
     (f) Personal Identification No./Tax Registration No. ..................................................
     (g) Contacts details ......................................................................................................
     (h) Name(s) of your bankers over the last 5 years
        .......................................................................................................................................
        .......................................................................................................................................
        .......................................................................................................................................
        .......................................................................................................................................
3. DESCRIPTION OF PAST AND PRESENT ACTIVITIES IN KENYA AND ABROAD
  3.1 SOURCES OF FUNDS
       Please provide details of the actual source(s) of funds that you, as a shareholder,
       would like to invest or use in the acquisition of shares in the virtual asset service
       provider.
       (a) ......................................................................................................................
       (b) ......................................................................................................................
       (c) ......................................................................................................................
  3.1 DECLARATION ON THE SOURCES OF FUNDS
        Please provide a sworn statement that the funds that you, as a shareholder, would
        like to invest or use in the acquisition of shares in the virtual asset service provider
        are not from proceeds of crime.
   3.2 Have you or any entity with which you are associated as director, shareholder or
       senior officer, ever held or applied for a license or equivalent authorisation to carry
       on any business activity in any country? If so, give particulars. If any such
       application was rejected or withdrawn after it was made or any authorisation
       revoked, give particulars.
           .......................................................................................................................................
           .......................................................................................................................................
           .......................................................................................................................................
                                          Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                                                      4365

3.3 Have you, or any entity with which you have been involved, been censured,
    disciplined, warned as to future conduct, or publicly criticized by any regulatory
    authority or any professional body in any country? If so, give particulars
3.4 Have you at any time been convicted of any criminal offence in any jurisdiction?
     If so, give particulars of the court and case number in which you were convicted,
     the offence, the penalty imposed and the date of conviction
      .....................................................................................................................................
      .....................................................................................................................................
      .....................................................................................................................................
3.5 Have you, or has any entity with which you are, or have been associated as a
    director, shareholder or senior officer, been the subject of an investigation, in any
    country, by a government department or agency, professional association or other
    regulatory body? If so, give particulars
    .......................................................................................................................................
    .......................................................................................................................................
    .......................................................................................................................................
3.6 Have you failed to satisfy debt adjudged due and payable by you on order of court,
    in any country, or have you made any compromise arrangement with your creditors
    within the last 10 years? If so, give particulars
    .......................................................................................................................................
    .......................................................................................................................................
    .......................................................................................................................................
3.7 Have you ever been declared bankrupt by a court in any country or has a Bankruptcy
    petition ever been served on you? If so, give particulars
    .......................................................................................................................................
    .......................................................................................................................................
    .......................................................................................................................................
3.8 Have you ever been disqualified, under any legislation or regulation from acting as
    a director or serving in a senior managerial capacity?
      .....................................................................................................................................
      .....................................................................................................................................
      .....................................................................................................................................
3.9 Have you, in any country, ever been dismissed from any office or employment,
    or been asked to resign or resigned from employment or position of trust or
    fiduciary appointment? If so give particulars
    .......................................................................................................................................
    .......................................................................................................................................
        .......................................................................................................................................
3.10      Have you ever been convicted of offences under any virtual assets law in any
          country? If so, give particulars
          .....................................................................................................................................
          .....................................................................................................................................
          .....................................................................................................................................
     4366                                Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

3.11      Has any entity with which you were associated as a director, shareholder or
          manager in any country been in financial distress, made any compromise or
          arrangement with its creditors, been wound up or otherwise ceased business either
          while you were associated with it or within three years after you ceased to be
          associated with it? If so, give particulars
          ....................................................................................................................................
          ....................................................................................................................................
          ....................................................................................................................................
4. DECLARATION
I am aware that it is an offence to knowingly provide any information, which is false or
misleading. I am also aware that omitting material information intentionally shall be
construed to be an offence.
I certify that the information given above is complete and accurate to the best of my
knowledge, and that there are no other facts relevant to this application of which the
relevant regulatory authority should be aware.
I undertake to inform the relevant regulatory authority of any material changes to the
information provided herein
NAME: ....................................................................................................................................
DATED AT:………………. THIS…………… DAY OF……....…… 20....................................
WITNESSED BEFORE ME:
SIGNED ................................................................................................................................
                                                         (Applicant)
COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS/MAGISTRATE
NAME: ..................................................................................................................................
SIGNATURE: ..........................................................................................................................
ADDRESS: .............................................................................................................................
MADE ON ………………….……………… 20 .....................................................................

Attachments:
   1. Curriculum Vitae and certified copies of academic and professional certificates.
   2. Certified copies of National Identity Card and Personal Identification Number
      (PIN) certificate.
   3. Current credit rating report from a credit reference bureau.
   4. Total number and the percentage of shares to be acquired and evidence of the
      consideration given or to be given for the same.
   5. For shareholders, provide a declaration witnessed by an advocate indicating that
      none of the funds the shareholder, beneficial owners, or directors seeks to invest
      are from proceeds of crime.
   6. Current credit rating report from a credit reference bureau.
    7.     CR12 and BOF1 for corporate shareholders
                             Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026                    4367

                                    FIFTH SCHEDULE
                         (rr. 6(2)(h), 85(2)(a), 85(3), 85(12))
                   CAPITAL AND LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS
                                   Paid up Capital                Liquid capital
     Virtual Asset Service
                                       (KSh.)                        (KSh.)
1.   Virtual Asset Wallet 150,000,000                   30,000,000 or 100% of current
     Provider                                           liabilities for at least 30 days,
                                                        whichever is higher
2.   Virtual       Assets 100,000,000                   20,000,000 or 8% of the total
     Exchange                                           liabilities, whichever is higher.

3.   Virtual       Asset 10,000,000                     100% of current liabilities for at
     Payment Processor                                  least 30 days.

4.   Virtual Asset Broker 10,000,000                     2,000,000 or 8% of its total
                                                        liabilities, whichever is higher
5.   Virtual       Asset NIL                            NIL
     Investment Advisor


6.   Virtual        Asset 20,000,000                     4,000,000 or 8% of its total
     Manager                                            liabilities, whichever is higher.

7.   Virtual         Asset 20,000,000                    4,000,000 or 8% of its total
     Offering Provider -                                liabilities, whichever is higher.
     Initial Coin Offering


8.   Virtual       Asset 10,000,000                      2,000,000 or 8% of its total
     Offering Provider -                                liabilities, whichever is higher.
     Virtual       Asset
     Tokenization
9.   Virtual       Asset 20,000,000                     4,000,000 or 8% of its total
     Offering Provider -                                liabilities, whichever is higher.
     Token      Issuance
     Platform
10. Virtual         Asset 300,000,000                   60,000,000 or 100% of current
    Offering Provider -                                 liabilities for at least 30 days,
    Stablecoin Issuance                                 whichever is higher.
4368                   Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2026

                                SIXTH SCHEDULE
              MEMBERSHIP OF THE COORDINATION FORUM
                                       (r. 145(2))
  1.   The National Treasury (Chairperson)
  2.   Central Bank of Kenya
  3.   Capital Markets Authority
  4.   Asset Recovery Agency
  5.   Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission
  6.   Financial Reporting Centre
  7.   Directorate of Criminal Investigation
  8.   National Intelligence Service
  9.   Nairobi International Financial Centre Authority
  10. National Computer and Cybercrimes Coordination Committee
  11. Office of the Data Protection Commissioner
  12. Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions
  13. Kenya Revenue Authority
  14. Office of the Attorney General
  15. Communications Authority of Kenya
  16. National Counter Terrorism Centre
  17. Sacco Societies Regulatory Authority
  18. Insurance Regulatory Authority
  19. Retirement Benefits Authority
  20. Any other agency as the Cabinet Secretary may designate.
  Made on the 3rd July, 2026.
                                                         JOHN MBADI NG’ONGO,
                                             Cabinet Secretary to the National Treasury.




              PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE GOVERNMENT PRINTER, NAIROBI
